Project Gutenberg's The Witches' Dream Book; and Fortune Teller, by A. H. Noe

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Witches' Dream Book; and Fortune Teller
       Embracing full and correct rules of divination concerning
       dreams and visions, etc, etc

Author: A. H. Noe

Release Date: January 3, 2017 [EBook #53879]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WITCHES' DREAM BOOK; FORTUNE TELLER ***




Produced by Chris Curnow and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)










[Illustration]




                       Universal Handbook, No. 2.

                                   THE
                          Witches’ Dream Book;
                                   AND
                             FORTUNE TELLER.

        EMBRACING FULL AND CORRECT RULES OF DIVINATION CONCERNING
            DREAMS AND VISIONS, FORETELLING OF FUTURE EVENTS,
         THEIR SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION TO PHYSIOGNOMY, PALMISTRY,
                  MOLES, CARDS, &C.; TOGETHER WITH THE
                 APPLICATION AND OBSERVANCE OF TALISMEN
                    CHARMS, SPELLS AND INCANTATIONS.

                              ILLUSTRATED.

                                NEW YORK:
                            HENRY J. WEHMAN.
                                  1885.

                  COPYRIGHT, 1885, BY HENRY J. WEHMAN.




PREFACE.

    “To sleep, perchance to dream.”--HAMLET.


This introductory page is inserted, not with the purpose of reviewing the
contents of the book--a custom, to our mind, more honored in the breach
than the observance--but merely to inform those who look within the pages,
the seekers after knowledge concerning the laws of Oneirology and the
bases of Fortune Telling, that they will find much to instruct, interest
and amuse. While avoiding undue prolixity, the subjects are
comprehensively and exhaustively treated, proving it to be more valuable
as a book of reference than any other of similar character ever before
given to the public.




DREAMS AND THEIR INTERPRETATION.


Although much prejudice exists as to the origination of Dreams and the
various interpretations given them, the fact is incontrovertible that they
have, in all ages and among all nations, borne a conspicuous part in
shaping destinies. Both sacred and profane history is replete with dreams
which have had more or less influence upon the lives of the dreamers.
Innumerable are the instances in which have been prefigured in dreams
occurrences that have actually taken place, and many dangers have been
averted by heeding warnings given during sleep. Of course it would be
unwise to place full credence in the prognostications of all dreams, and
equally so to totally disregard them. To both the educated and the
illiterate, dreams, of whatever nature, point a moral; and those who
heedlessly ignore their lessons often experience cause for regret.
Appended will be found a succinct compendium of the scientific and
philosophic researches of many gifted in the art of divination.

=Acquaintance.=--To dream that you fight with them signifies distraction,
especially if the person so dreaming be sick. =Adversary.=--To dream that
you receive obstruction from him, shows that you will dispatch your
business speedily. =Adultery.=--For a person to dream that they have
committed it, shows they will meet great contentions and disputes.
=Almonds.=--To dream one sees or eats almonds, signifies difficulties and
trouble. =Alms.=--To dream that they are begged of you, and you deny to
give them, shows want and misery to the dreamer; but to dream you give
them freely is a sign of joy and gladness. =Anchor.=--To dream you see
one, signifies great assurance and certain joys. =Altar.=--To dream you
uncover or discover an altar, betokens joy and gladness. =Angel.=--To
dream you see angels is good, but to speak with or call upon them is evil.
=Anger.=--To dream that you have been provoked to anger shows that you
have powerful enemies. =Angling.=--To dream that you are angling, betokens
much affliction and trouble in something which you desire to get.
=Apes.=--To dream you have seen or had anything to do with them, signifies
malicious, weak, strange and secret enemies; also a malefactor and
deceiver. =Apparition.=--To dream you see an apparition, or spirit,
clothed in white, signifies deceit and temptation to sin. =Adam.=--To
dream you see this father of men, this inhabitant of Paradise, who was
betrayed by Eve into sin, is a happy omen. If he looks pleasant, be sure
you will succeed in whatever you undertake. If he looks displeased and
angry, then you must use great caution in all your dealings, for some
mischief is intended you, but you will get the better of it. Be careful,
if he speaks to you, to mind what he says, and observe it as faithfully as
you possibly can. =Absence.=--

    To dream of any absent friends,
    Good news of them, or ill, portends;
    But if at thy bedside they seem,
    Their deaths, perhaps, may solve thy dream.

=Abuse.=--To dream that you are abused and insulted, is a certain sign
some dispute will happen between you and some person with whom you have
business; therefore after such a dream you should be particularly careful
of yourself and be as gentle and mild as possible, that you may not give
those with whom you have dealings any advantage over you. =Acorns.=--

    To dream of acorns do not slight,
    It promises both strength and might.

=Ague.=--To dream you have an ague, denotes that you are in danger of
becoming a drunkard and a glutton. To dream your sweetheart has an ague,
is a lucky omen; it shows you are beloved, and that you will be happy with
the object of your wishes, but never very rich. =Apparel.=--Nothing more
demonstrates the events that are about to happen to you, than dreaming of
wearing apparel; but almost every color has a different interpretation,
and must depend on its being new or old, its fitting you, or being too big
or too little. To dream you are dressed in white, is a sure token of
success in the first object you undertake, and that you will be successful
in love, and that your sweetheart is of good temper and amiable
disposition. To dream that you are dressed in green denotes that you are
about to take a journey to your advantage, and that your sweetheart
prefers you to all other lovers. To dream that you are dressed in black is
an unlucky omen. To dream that you are dressed in blue, denotes happiness.
If you dream you are dressed in scarlet, you are thereby warned of some
very heavy calamity. To dream you are dressed in yellow, is rather lucky
than otherwise. To dream you are dressed in crimson, indicates that you
will live to a good old age, and be neither very fortunate or unfortunate
through life; it denotes a dispute between landlord and tenant, which will
be settled amicably to the advantage of the latter. To dream that you are
dressed in a variety of colors, denotes a variety of fortunes is about to
attend you. To dream you are fashionably dressed and in good company, is
very good for the dreamer; he will rise considerably above his present
condition. To dream your clothes fit you well and are comfortable to the
season of the year, is favorable and denotes success. To dream your
clothes do not fit you, and that they are not suitable to the season,
denotes death of some friend and a loss by fire. To dream you see another
dressed in any of the modes above described, forebodes to the person
dreamt of the same fortunes. To dream you are dressed in new clothes, is a
very favorable omen; it portends honors and success to your undertakings.
=Apparitions.=--To dream you see a ghost, goblin, spectre and such kind of
things, is of a very unfortunate nature; if you are in love, it is a
certain sign of your not being beloved in return; depend upon it some one
is about to deceive you and that you are friendly with one who is your
most inveterate enemy. =Arms.=--To dream your arms are withered is a
certain sign that you will decay in health and fortune. To dream they are
growing strong signifies that some unexpected success will attend you. To
dream that your right arm is cut off, denotes you will lose some male
relation. To dream your left arm is cut off, denotes you will lose some
near female relative. For a married woman to dream her arms have grown
lusty and strong, denotes that she will have many male children, that her
husband will arrive at public honors and will grow rich and make many
friends. =Apples.=--To dream of apples betokens long life and success, a
boy to a woman with child, faithfulness in your sweetheart and riches by
trade. =Apricots.=--To dream of apricots, denotes health and prosperity, a
speedy marriage, dutiful children and success in love. =Asses.=--To dream
you see jackasses, is a good sign. To dream you are riding on an ass, is
the forerunner of some foolish quarrel. To dream that you are driving an
ass, denotes that you will fall into some trouble, of which you will get
the better. To dream an ass runs after you, denotes that some slander will
be raised against you by some foolish persons, who will be themselves the
victims of the scandal raised against you. To dream you see an ass fall
loaded, is a very good import and shows that you will be the founder of
your own fortune. =Attorneys.=--To dream that you are speaking with them,
shows hindrance of business and that a man will have little success in his
affairs. =Armed Men.=--To see them in your dream, is a good sign, and
denotes one void of fear; to dream you see an armed man fly is a sign of
victory; to see men come in arms against you, signifies sadness.
=Action.=--To dream that you are sent of an errand, signifies great loss
to the married; to the lover it denotes success in his pursuit, and that
he will shortly marry a very amiable and accomplished maiden. For a maiden
to dream that she was sent on an errand, denotes that she will shortly
marry the object of her affections and be very happy. To the sick it
denotes a speedy recovery. =Ascend.=--For one to dream they ascend towards
the skies is favorable, particularly so if the clouds appear bright.
=Air.=--To dream of the atmosphere has a variety of interpretations, and
depends entirely on its appearance. If you dream the sky is clear, of a
fine blue, calm and serene, then it is a good omen. To dream that it is
streaked with white, denotes that many severe difficulties will befall
you, over which you will eventually triumph. To dream that it was full of
thick, dark and heavy clouds, is an unfavorable token; disappointments
will attend you. To dream that the sky is streaked with red and looks
fiery, denotes that in love you will be successful; in business not so; it
also forewarns you that sickness and trouble will attend your family.
=Altar.=--To dream you are at the altar and receiving the holy sacrament
is a very unfavorable omen, and denotes many heavy and severe afflictions.
=Adder.=--A person that dreams of the asp and the adder, is thereby
betokened to have stores of money and rich wives. =Assassin.=--To dream of
an assassin is a warning not to be neglected. Shun all pretending friends,
lend no money, be ever on your guard, and you may escape destruction,
which is planned for your ruin. =Ants.=--To dream of these industrious
little insects, hath a variety of interpretations, depending on the manner
in which you dream of them; if you see them running about, it denotes that
you will be a great loser by some plan that you will undertake for gain.
If you dream you see them busily employed laying in their winter stores,
it is a good omen--things will prosper with you. If they appear to be
devoured by other animals, and otherwise injured and trodden upon, then it
is a bad omen. If you dream of these insects when you are sick, you must
expect to recover very slowly. =Auction.=--To dream you attend an auction
is, on the whole, unfavorable. If you purchase, expect loss of property.
If you only attend, you are sure to meet with a heavy deprivation of
friends and property. If you pass by one, then you will attain, in a few
years, all that you moderately desire.

=Bear.=--

    To dream a bear thy step pursues,
    A cruel foe some mischief brews.

=Beggars.=--To dream of beggars is rather unfavorable, especially to
lovers and persons in business. To dream they beg alms of you and that you
refuse it, denotes misery, want, and a prison; if you are in love, some
scandalous person will ruin you with your sweetheart. To dream that you
give them alms, indicates success in business, and that you will obtain,
after much difficulty, the object of your affections; your children will
be sickly, and narrowly escape many dangers. =Bleeding.=--To dream you are
bleeding, denotes loss of goods and character, and that your sweetheart
will not marry you. To dream you see another bleeding, indicates that some
person who pretends to be your friend is about to take some great
advantage of you. To dream you draw blood of another, denotes that you
will recover a lawsuit and be successful in love and business. To dream
another draws blood of you, is a certain prognostic that you will be
unsuccessful in love and in business, and in everything you undertake.
=Blind.=--To dream of being blind is a sure sign that you repose your
confidence in some person who is your bitter enemy; it denotes also that
your sweetheart is unfaithful and prefers another; in business it denotes
that you will lose money, and that your servants lack fidelity.
=Boat.=--To dream that you are on the water in a boat, provided you are in
company, denotes prosperity and success in your undertakings. If you dream
you are in a boat alone, it is a bad omen. To dream the boat oversets, is
the most fatal of all omens. =Bridge.=--To dream you are crossing over a
bridge is a good omen--it denotes prosperity through life, and success in
love. To dream you are passing under a bridge, indicates that you will
never be perfectly at ease. If you meet with any obstruction on the
bridge it foretells a fit of sickness; are you a lover, it denotes that
your sweetheart will be afflicted with illness. To dream a bridge breaks
down with you denotes sudden death. =Bread.=--To dream you see a great
quantity of loaves of bread, denotes success in life. To dream you are
eating good bread, denotes that you will be shortly married. To dream the
bread is musty and bad, denotes the loss of friends and that some near
relation will shortly die. =Brother.=--To dream you see your brother,
denotes a speedy marriage in your family and that the dreamer will not be
long-lived; if you are in love it is a favorable omen. =Building.=--To
dream of being amongst buildings, denotes that you will change your
present place of residence and that you will make many new friends in
life; if you are in love it foretells your sweetheart is about to remove
at a distance from you, and that you will be in danger of losing the
affections of your lover by a new face. =Bulls.=--To dream you are pursued
by a bull, denotes that many injurious reports will be spread on your
character. If you dream the bull gores you, or tosses you, then expect
shortly to lose your liberty; it denotes that some person in power will do
you an injury. =Burning.=--

    To dream of burning doth imply,
    A sudden danger, ripe and nigh;
    Of all escapes you then beware,
    For though fate threatens, it may spare.

=Butchers.=--To dream of seeing butchers is in general a very unlucky
omen; it always foretells some injury to the dreamer. If you see them
cutting up meat some of your friends will be hanged, and you will
experience much misery and poverty. =Bed.=--To dream you go to the bedside
of your lover, foretells a speedy marriage; if you dream you go between
the sheets, you will have a child within twelve months after marriage, who
will become rich and afford you support in your old age. =Banquets.=--To
dream of banquets denotes poverty and want. =Bat.=--To dream of bats is
very inauspicious. =Belly.=--To dream one’s belly is bigger and fuller
than ordinary, shows his family and estate will increase. If one dreams
his belly is grown lean and shrunk up, he will be joyfully delivered of
some bad accident. If any one dreams that his belly is swelled, and yet
notwithstanding be empty, he will become poor, though he be rich in the
esteem of many people in the world. If any one dreams his belly aches, he
will be afflicted in his family and have many cares upon him. =Blowing the
Fire.=--To dream you are blowing the fire indicates to the lover, that
your sweetheart is very angry with you. =Barn.=--To dream of a barn, and
that you see it well stored with corn, denotes much good; it foretells to
a man that he will marry some rich woman; to a maid, that she will marry a
man who will grow very rich by his industry, and be promoted in the state.
If you dream you see an empty barn, the reverse will happen.
=Bathing.=--To dream of a bath is a very unpropitious omen; expect after
it to experience many mishaps and much sorrow. If you are in love, your
sweetheart will experience many crosses and losses; but to dream you are
bathing yourself in clear water, denotes happiness, prosperity and success
in love--if the water is dirty, then it foretells shame and sorrow, and a
disappointment in love. =Beheading.=--To dream you see any one beheaded,
is a good omen; if you are in love, you will marry the object of your
affections. If you are in prison, you will speedily gain your liberty.
=Bells.=--To dream you hear the bells ringing, denotes a speedy marriage
and that you will receive some very good news. =Bees.=--To dream they
sting you, denotes loss of character, and if you are in love, of your
sweetheart. To dream you see them at work, is a very lucky dream; it
forebodes great success by your own industry. To dream you see them making
their honey under your own roof is the best omen in the world. For the
rich to dream of bees, is rather unlucky, but to the poor, they denote
comfort, affluence and success. =Beard.=--For a man to dream he has a long
beard, denotes good fortune; if he is in trade, he will thrive; if he is
in love, he will marry the present object of his affections, who will
bring him some money; if he is a farmer, it denotes good crops, and an
addition to his farm. If a married woman dreams of a beard, it is unlucky;
it foretells the loss of her husband and that she will fall into great
distress. If a maid dreams of a beard, it denotes that she will be quickly
married and that the fruit of her womb is a boy. For a woman to dream that
she has a beard is a very lucky omen, and denotes that she will speedily
attain her most sanguine desires. =Battle.=--To dream of battle in the
streets, forewarns you against secret enemies who will endeavor to harm
you. If you are in love, your sweetheart is false to you. =Bacon.=--To
dream of bacon denotes the death of some friend or relation and that
enemies will endeavor to do you mischief. In love, it denotes
disappointment and discontent. =Back.=--To dream you see your back,
betokens some uneasiness; for the back to be broken or hurt, shows you
will be scoffed at by your enemies; yet to dream of the backbone,
signifies health and success in love, marriage and business. =Basin.=--To
dream of a basin, signifies a good maid; and to dream you eat or drink
therein, shows you have a love to the servant maid. For a man to see
himself in a basin as in a glass, denotes he shall have children by a
servant maid. =Beech and Myrtle Trees.=--Signifies wanton women and are
good for those who would undertake any such business; to others they are
pain and labor. =Beans.=--To dream you are eating beans always signifies
trouble and dissension. =Beets.=--To dream of eating beets, signifies
freedom from trouble and expedition on business, because they make the
body soluble. =Burial.=--

    To dream a burial passes by,
    News of the living doth imply.

=Briars and Brambles.=--If you dream you are passing through places
covered with these things, it portends troubles; if they prick you, secret
enemies will do you an injury with your friends and unfavorable tales
will make your sweetheart shy of you; if they draw blood of you, expect
heavy losses in trade. If you dream you pass through them without injury,
then you will at last triumph over all your enemies and become happy.
=Bells.=--To dream one hears ringing of bells, if of a sanguine
complexion, brings them good news; but to others, it shows alarms,
murmurings, disturbances and commotions. =Birding.=--To dream you catch
birds, signifies profit and pleasure. =Bird’s Nest.=--To dream you find
one is a good sign. To dream you find one without eggs or birds, shows you
will meet with great disappointments. =Birth.=--To dream of one’s birth is
good for him that is poor; but to him that is rich, this dream signifies
that others shall rule over him against his will. =Blindman’s Buff.=--To
dream that one plays blindman’s buff, signifies prosperity, joy and
pleasure. =Blossoming of Trees.=--To dream you see all sorts of trees
blossoming, is a sign of joy, comfort and recreation. =Brewing and
Baking.=--To dream of brewing and baking is the sign of an ill housewife,
who lies dreaming in bed, when she should be at work and doing her
business. =Breast.=--To dream that you have hairy breasts and the tap pup
covered with hair, denotes great gain and profit to men; but to a woman,
loss of her husband. If a young married woman dreams that her breasts are
full and spurting out milk, it signifies that she is with child and that
it will be a perfect birth. If a virgin dreams thus, she is near her
marriage. If a woman dreams she has sore breasts she is threatened with
death. =Broth.=--To dream of eating broth is a good sign and signifies
profit and gain. =Buried Alive.=--For a man to dream he is buried alive,
signifies he shall have much wealth. =Burned.=--For a man to dream he is
burned, signifies (according to the interpretations of the Persians and
Egyptians) that he shall be rich, honored and respected; but if he
imagines that he was burned by a fire that did not quite consume him, he
will inevitably perish in the end. =Basket.=--For a man to dream of
baskets is evil; it denotes decay of business to a merchant, want of
employment to a mechanic, and loss of place to a servant; but if a woman
dreams she receives a number of baskets it is a good omen, and especially
so if well filled; to a maiden it denotes that she will have many new
lovers; to a wife, that she will have an increase in her family, and to
the widow, that she will soon marry again. =Bonnet.=--For a maiden to
dream she gets a new bonnet, gives promise of a new lover, but Mother
Shipton says that much depends on the color; if green, he will be
deceitful; if blue, he will prove affectionate; if pink, his love will not
be lasting; if yellow or white, he will quickly improve marriage; but if a
female loses her bonnet, it behooves her to be guarded of her virtue, for
she is in danger of being led astray; if it be blown off, she will have
something she dearly prizes stolen from her. =Buttons.=--To dream of
bright buttons is seldom good; if rusty, it portends misfortune; if
covered, sadness. If a man dreams he has lost all the buttons of his
clothes, it is a sign he will not live long.

=Cards.=--To dream that you are playing at cards is a sure prognostic that
you will be in love, and speedily married. If you hold a great many
picture cards, your marriage will be the means of making you rich and
happy. If your cards are mostly diamonds, the person you marry will be of
a sour and disagreeable temper. If they are mostly hearts, your marriage
will cement love, and you will be very happy and have many children. If
they are mostly clubs, you will get money by your marriage. If they are
mostly spades, your marriage will turn out very unhappy and your children
will be unfaithful and subject to many hardships. If you are in
expectation of a place, you will get it, and if you are in business you
will be successful. =Cats.=--To dream of these domestic animals is
indicative of much trouble and vexation; it denotes to the lover that your
sweetheart is treacherous. If you keep servants, they are unfaithful, and
will rob you. To dream you kill a cat, denotes that you discover a thief
and prosecute him to conviction; expect also to lose your own liberty
through some pretended friend. =Cattle.=--To dream you see cattle feeding,
denotes great prosperity and unexpected success; to a lover it foretells a
happy marriage, with many children, and to a man it shows that his wife
will receive some unexpected legacy. To dream you are driving cattle
denotes that you will become rich by industry. If you are in love it shows
that you have many rivals, but that you will distance them all. To dream
you see fat cattle also denotes a plentiful year. To dream you see lean
and hungry cattle, denotes scarcity and famine. =Clock.=--To dream you
hear the clock strike, denotes that you will be speedily married, and that
you will be moderately successful in life. To dream you are counting the
hours, if in the forenoon, shows much happiness, and that your sweetheart
is true to you, but if in the afternoon, that misfortune and danger will
attend you, and that your sweetheart is false and loves another.
=Coach.=--To dream you are riding in a coach is a very unlucky omen. It
foretells poverty and disgrace. If you are in love, your sweetheart will
be idle and bad-tempered. If you are in trade, you will become bankrupt,
and if you are a farmer, your goods will be seized for rent. It also
denotes that the dreamer will shortly be in prison. =Coals.=--To dream of
coals is a very unlucky omen. It denotes much affliction and trouble. To
dream you see coals burning, if they are very clear and bright, is a good
sign. To dream you see the coals extinguished and reduced to cinders,
denotes death, either to yourself or some near relation or friend; it also
indicates great losses, and forewarns you of beggary and prison.
=Comets.=--To dream you see one of these extraordinary ethereal
substances, is ominous of war, plague, famine, and death; to the lover it
forebodes an entire frustration of his hopes; to the farmer, failure of
crops; and to the seaman, storms and shipwrecks. After such a dream
change, if possible, your present place of residence. =Cook.=--

    Dream you’re busy with a cook,
    And for a wedding shortly look.

=Corn.=--To dream you see fields of corn, or that you are among unthrashed
corn, is a very favorable omen; it denotes success in business; to the
lover it announces that you will marry, have many children, and become
rich and happy. If you are a sailor, it denotes a lucrative voyage and
fine weather, and that you will be near marrying in the next port you
touch at. If you dream you are gathering ripe corn, it is the most
fortunate dream you can have. =Crowns.=--To dream you see these emblems of
royalty, portends success and elevation to dignities, either in the church
or state. For a maid to dream of a crown, shows she will marry a very
industrious man, or one who is rich. =Crutches.=--To dream you are walking
on crutches, is a very unfavorable omen. To dream you see another walking
on crutches, denotes that these things will happen to some friend. If you
are a married man, then that your wife is inconstant; if a married woman,
then that the husband is ruining himself with some harlot. =Currants.=--To
dream of currants prefigures happiness in life, success in undertakings,
constancy in your sweetheart, handsome children to the married, riches to
the farmer and tradesman. =Church.=--To dream of church is portentous of
evil. If you are in a church during divine service, you will be engaged in
a lawsuit, or some other quarrel that will very near ruin you. If you are
in love, your sweetheart is unfaithful, and prefers another. If you expect
a place, it forebodes disappointment. If you are in trade, you will never
thrive in your present situation. =Cage.=--To dream of letting birds out
of a cage denotes a speedy marriage. To a person in business it denotes
success, and to a farmer it denotes good crops. =Cain.=--To dream of the
firstborn son of man, who was Adam’s eldest son, is a very unfavorable
omen; after such a dream let the dreamer travel into another part of the
country and form new connections. =Cakes.=--To dream you are eating cakes,
denotes happiness and prosperity.

    Dream that cakes you knead and make,
    You thrive and many profits take.

=Candles.=--To dream you see candles burning, if they burn clear and
bright, that you will be speedily married. To dream that new candles are
brought in, denotes that by the interference of friends, all your disputes
will be amicably adjusted and that your sweetheart will recover from a fit
of sickness.

    A light that burns both bright and clear,
    Denotes some pleasant letter near;
    But if dull the candle grows,
    It certain disappointment shows.

=Cheese.=--

    To dream of cheese is not in vain.
    In trade you will profit gain.

=Chickens.=--To dream of a hen and chickens is the forerunner of ill luck;
your sweetheart will betray you and marry another. If you are a farmer,
you will have a bad crop and lose many of your poultry. If you are in
trade some sharper will defraud you. If you go to sea, you will lose your
goods and narrowly escape shipwreck. =Chess.=--If any one dreams that he
plays at chess with an acquaintance, it is a sign that he will fall out
with somebody he knows, and if he imagines in his dream he wins, he shall
overcome his enemies. And on the contrary, if he dream that he loses, he
will be overcome and worsted in the combat. =Clouds.=--To dream of white
clouds, signifies prosperity; clouds mounting high from the earth, denotes
voyages, the return of the absent, and revealing of secrets; clouds red
and inflamed, show an ill issue of affairs; to dream of dark and obscure
clouds, shows an ill time of anger. =Caterpillars.=--To dream you see
caterpillars, signifies ill luck and misfortune by secret enemies.
=Chains,= pearls, precious stones, earrings, &c., and all adornings of the
hands and necks of women, are good dreams to the fair sex; to widows and
maids they signify marriage; and to those that have husbands and children,
purchases and riches; for as women are provided with these deckings, so
shall they be stored with husbands, children and goods. =Chariot.=--To
dream of driving a chariot drawn by wolves, leopards, dogs, tigers, or
such like beasts, is only good to such as have great enemies. To dream to
be drawn in a chair by men is good. =Cheeks.=--To dream one hath cheeks
plump, fat and of vermilion tincture, is good to all, especially women,
but to dream that you are lean, pale, and full of wrinkles, signifies
grief and heaviness. =Capon.=--To dream that a capon crows, signifies
sadness and trouble. =Carrion.=--To dream of carrion, signifies sadness.
=Carrots.=--To dream of carrots, signifies profit and strength to them
which are at law for inheritance; for we pluck them out of the ground with
our hands, branches, strings and veins. =Cart.=--To dream of being tied to
a cart, to draw like an horse or an ox, denotes servitude and pain to
everybody; but to dream that you are carried in a cart or coach, the
contrary. =Coalpit.=--To dream of being in the bottom of a coalpit,
signifies marrying with a widow; for he that marries her shall never sound
the depth of her policies. =Combing.=--For any person to dream of combing
him or herself, is good, both for man or woman, for it signifies to get
out of evil times or affairs. =Comfort.=--To dream you have comforts of
any one, betokens to the rich and happy, injury and mishap; but to the
poor and afflicted, aid and comfort. =Command.=--To dream you command any
one, signifies trouble; to dream you see one command, signifies anger and
authority. =Complexion.=--To dream you see an unknown person of a brown
complexion, is a sign of glory, honor, success and dispatch of business.
If one dreams he sees a woman of a very brown complexion, it signifies a
very dangerous disease. If you see a woman unknown in your dream, with
long and comely hair, with clear complexion, it is a very good sign.
=Corns.=--For a man to dream his flesh is full of corns, shows he will
grow rich proportionately to his corns. =Crocodile.=--To dream of a
crocodile, signifies pirates or robbers at sea, or wicked periods in any
sort like the crocodile. =Cross.=--To dream you see a cross carried along,
signifies sadness. =Cross Purposes.=--To dream one plays at cross
purposes, signifies prosperity, joy, pleasure, health and concord among
friends and relations. =Crow.=--To dream you see a crow, signifies
expedition of business. To dream you see a crow flying, is ill luck; and
if you hear them croaking unpleasantly, the dream is so much the worse. If
you dream the crow flies on the head of a child, it will be in great
danger of some misfortune. =Cypress Trees.=--To dream you see a cypress
tree denotes affliction in business. =Crowing.=--To dream you are crowing,
or that you hear others crowing, denotes ill luck, especially to lovers;
but to dream that you hear pigeons crowing, is good, especially to the
newly-married, as it denotes happiness. =Crawl.=--To dream that you are
crawling on the floor is bad; but to dream that you are crawling on the
roof of a house is good, particularly to the lovers, as it is a sure sign
they will be married. =Children.=--To dream you see children, denotes
success in your undertakings. To dream you see a child born, denotes a
speedy marriage and that you will be very happy with your family. To dream
you see a child die, imports that you will experience some very heavy
misfortune, and that your sweetheart will marry another. To dream you see
children dirty and ragged, denotes that some friend will endeavor to
prevail upon you to commit an act by which your reputation will be
endangered; it also denotes that you will be in prison and experience
poverty. For a maiden to dream she is with child, denotes that some man
will attempt to rob her of her chastity, and that if she resists she will
marry and be very happy. =Climbing.=--To dream that you are climbing up a
tree, denotes that you will be successful in life. To dream you are
climbing up a very steep hill or place, foretells many difficulties in
life, and much sickness. If you reach the top, you will get over all your
difficulties and recover from your illness; but if you awake before you
have attained the top, you will be disappointed in love and all other
projects and die in your next illness. =Cherries.=--To dream of cherries
is a disappointment in life, vexation in the married state and slight in
love. =Cucumbers.=--To dream of cucumbers, denotes recovery to the sick,
and that you will speedily fall in love, or that if you are in love, you
will marry the object of your affection. It also denotes moderate success
in trade. To the sailor it foretells a pleasant voyage and a sweetheart in
a distant climate. =Coffin.=--To dream of one denotes the death of a
friend or some near relation.

=Disease.=--To dream you have any disease promises prompt and speedy
employment. =Dragon.=--To dream you see a dragon signifies riches and gain
of great treasure. =Dancing.=--To dream that you are dancing at a ball,
wake, or entertainment, foretells that you will shortly receive some
joyful news from a long absent friend, and that you are about to inherit
some unexpected legacy; for it foretells success and happiness in love;
that your sweetheart is kind. =Deer.=--To dream you see deer in a park,
denotes war and famine; to the lover it foretells some unpleasant dispute
with his sweetheart. =Dice.=--To dream you are playing at dice or
back-gammon, denotes much good to the dreamer, in either love, marriage
or trade. =Dirt.=--To dream of dirt signifies sickness and dishonor. To
dream you fall in the dirt, signifies that you shall be treacherously
dealt with. =Ditches.=--To dream of deep ditches, steep mountains, rocks,
and other eminences, surely foretells danger and misfortune. Expect
thieves to rob your dwelling; that your children will be undutiful and
bring you into trouble. If you are in love, it foretells unhappiness if
you marry your present sweetheart. If you are in trade, it denotes loss of
goods, if not of liberty. =Dogs.=--To dream of these faithful and domestic
animals has very different significations, according to the manner in
which you see them. If they fawn and fondle upon you, then it is a very
lucky omen. If you are in love, your sweetheart will marry you and be very
happy. If they are barking and snarling at you, then depend that enemies
are secretly endeavoring to destroy your reputation and happiness; if you
are in love, be careful of your sweetheart. =Drowning.=--To dream you are
drowning, or that you see another drowned or drowning, portends good to
the dreamer. To the lover it denotes that your sweetheart is good-tempered
and inclined to marry you. =Dead.=--To dream of talking with dead folks is
a good, auspicious dream, and signifies a boldness of courage and a very
clear conscience. To dream a man is dead that is alive and in health,
signifies great trouble and being overthrown at law. =Darkness.=--To dream
you are in a very dark place, or that you are in the dark, is a very
unfavorable omen. To dream you get out of darkness into light, denotes
good to the dreamer. Expect also to hear some glad tidings from a far
distant country. =Death.=--To dream of death, denotes that you will either
be speedily married yourself, or else assist at a wedding. To dream that
you are dead, also denotes a speedy marriage, and that you will be
successful in your undertakings. To dream you see another person dead,
denotes unkind usage from your friends. =Drunkenness.=--To dream you are
drunk, is one of those dreams by which the dreamer is forewarned of that
of which at present he knows nothing. It denotes that some person whom yet
you do not know, will become a very good friend and promote your welfare.
To a woman, it denotes that she will be beloved by an excellent man whom
yet she has not seen; and to a man it denotes that he is tenderly beloved
by a woman whom he does not at present think of, who will make him
extremely happy, and bring him money. =Dairy.=--To dream you are in a
dairy busy at work, is a very favorable omen; to the maid it indicates
that her lover will be of an industrious turn, and that if she marries,
she will have children, and her husband will become rich and rise to
honor. To the farmer it denotes that his crops will be abundant, but that
he will lose some of his live stock by thieves. =Devil.=--To dream of this
enemy to the human race, denotes that many dangers will threaten you, all
of which you will overcome. If you are in love, it forebodes that some one
is endeavoring to alienate the affection of your sweetheart, but will be
unsuccessful. =Dolphin.=--To dream of a dolphin, shows to seafaring men a
wind from the place whence you dream he cometh. But to dream you see the
dolphin out of water, signifies the death of friends. =Drink.=--To dream
you drink cold water, is good, but hot signifies sickness and hindrance of
affairs. To dream you drink wine with moderation, is good; to drink oil,
signifies poison. To dream you are drinking when you are dry from a stream
or fountain, is a sign of sickness. If a man dreams he is drunk with sack,
or some sweet, pleasant drink, it is a sign he will be beloved by some
lady and grow rich thereby. =Dunghill.=--To dream you stand on a dunghill
is a favorable omen. It is a sure forerunner of success in everything
undertaken at this time. For a maiden to dream she is on a dunghill, is a
sign that she will marry the choice of her affections, who will be a man
of some importance. =Daisy.=--It is good to dream of daisies in the spring
or summer, but bad in fall or winter. =Dandelions.=--To dream of gathering
dandelions is ominous to one. To dream you see a large bed of them denotes
that you have many new enemies forming, who will do you much injury in
secret. If one in love dreams of dandelions, be sure their sweetheart is
playing them false.

=Eagles.=--To dream you see an eagle soaring very high in the air, denotes
prosperity, riches and honor; to the lover it foretells success in love
and a happy marriage. To dream you see an eagle perched on the steeple of
a church, or on any high eminence, is a very good omen; it denotes that in
some arduous undertaking you will be successful and thereby arrive at
riches and honor; it also denotes that the dreamer will make his fortune
beyond the sea. If a woman with child dreams of an eagle, then it denotes
that her offspring will marry well and be very happy. =Eggs.=--To dream
you are buying or selling eggs, is a very favorable omen; whatever you are
then about will succeed, whether it be love, trade, or getting a place. To
dream that you are eating eggs, denotes that you will shortly have a child
and that your affairs will go well. To dream your eggs are broken, denotes
loss of goods, quarrels and poverty; if you are in love, it forebodes a
separation between you and your sweetheart. =Elderberries.=--To dream of
elderberries augurs content and riches; to a maiden they bespeak a speedy
marriage; to a married woman, that she will shortly be with child; to the
tradesman, success in business; to the farmer, good crops.
=Elephants.=--To dream of an elephant is a very fortunate dream; it
denotes acquirement of riches. If you are in love, it denotes a speedy
marriage with your sweetheart, and many children, chiefly boys, who will
distinguish themselves by their learning. =Eclipse.=--To dream you see an
eclipse of the moon, denotes that you will lose some female friend--your
mother, if she be living. You will experience a great uneasiness on
account of a woman. Your sweetheart will prove unfaithful. Poverty will
overtake you and misery end your days. To dream you see an eclipse of the
sun, denotes that you will lose some male friend--your father, if he be
alive; and that you will experience some uneasiness by the means of some
troublesome friends; to a woman with child it foretells a son, who will be
a great man. =Earthquake.=--To dream of an earthquake, warns you that your
affairs are about to take a great change. If you see many houses tumble
into ruins, then it will be much for the better. =Eyes.=--To dream you
lose your eyes, is a very unfortunate omen. It denotes decay of
circumstances, loss of friends, death of relations and miscarriage in
love. If a woman with child dreams of it, it denotes that the child will
be very unhappy and lose its liberty. =Execution.=--To dream of the
execution of offenders, shows that you will be suddenly sought after for
relief by some that are in great want and extremity. =Earthworms.=--To
dream of earthworms, signifies secret enemies that endeavor to ruin and
destroy us. =Ear.=--If a man dreams his ears be fair and well shaped, it
shows he shall come to great renown; but if he dreams his ears are
ill-favored and deformed, it shows the contrary. This dream is ill to a
servant, and those who have a lawsuit, if he be a plaintiff or the
defendant, but it is good to an artificer or one that worketh with his
hands, for he shall have many that will employ him. To dream that one
picks or cleans his ears, betokens that good news shall come forth one
side or other. But to dream that the ears have been beaten or chafed,
signifies we shall hear ill news. If any one dreams his ear is hurt or
split, he will be offended by some one that belongs to him, or by some
friend. If he dream that his ear is quite off, he shall be utterly
deprived of their friendship. =Eve.=--To dream you see the mother of all
men, is a favorable omen. It denotes great happiness to the lover.
=Eyebrows.=--To dream the eyebrows are hairy and of a good grace, is good,
especially to a woman. But if either men or women dream their eyebrows are
more large or comely than they used to be, it is a sign they will succeed
in the matrimonial way. =Evil Spirits.=--To dream evil spirits obstruct
your doing good under a show of devotion, denotes obstruction in your
affairs by a hypocrite; and if you dream that you see hideous
physiognomies, something vulgar will be revealed to you. =Eating.=--To
dream that you are eating, is a very unfavorable omen; it portends
disunion in your family, losses in trade, and disappointment in love,
storms and shipwrecks by sea. =Enemy.=--To dream you talk to an enemy, is
a caution to beware of him. To dream you fight with and are worsted by
him, denotes that you will meet with some misfortune which has threatened
you for some time. =Eels.=--To dream of eels, signifies to beware of
slippery pursuits and uncertain speculations. If the eels escape you, you
will be jilted in love; if you hold them, honor and happiness will be in
store for you. =Elf.=--To dream of an elf signifies a happy return of one
long absent; presents of value may be expected after this dream, which
also signifies marriage, with wealth, position and happiness.
=Elopement.=--To dream of a friend’s elopement, signifies marriage against
the wishes of your friends, and unhappiness. To dream of your own
elopement, betokens entering into ruinous speculations in love or
business. =Epitaph.=--To read or write an epitaph in your dream,
signifies much good to come from a secret friend. To read your own
epitaph, signifies marriage with one now an entire stranger, of great
wealth and position. =Equipage.=--To dream of possessing one, signifies
complete happiness, with the gratification of every wish, however
extravagant.

=Face.=--To dream your face is swelled shows that you will accumulate
wealth. If you are in love, it denotes that your sweetheart will receive
an unexpected legacy and marry you. =Fall.=--To dream you fall from any
high place, or from a tree, denotes loss of place and goods. If you are in
love, it surely indicates that you will never marry the present object of
your affections. =Feet.=--To dream you are near a river or fountain and
that you wash your feet, signifies molestation and trouble. To dream of
one scratching the soles of your feet, signifies loss by flattery.
=Fan.=--If a maiden dreams she has been fanned by a man, she will soon
make a new conquest, or marry the present object of her affections. For a
man to dream he is fanning a person, signifies that he will soon meet with
many changes in his affairs. =Furniture.=--To dream of getting new
furniture that pleases you, is good. If it seems not to please, the dream
is a bad one. To be pleased with furniture, denotes health, happiness and
prosperity. To display furniture, denotes trouble, perhaps a death or a
funeral. =Faction.=--To dream of being engaged in faction or sedition,
denotes wealth by indirect ways. =Father-in-law.=--To dream one sees his
father-in-law, either dead or alive, is ill, especially if he dreams that
he uses violence or threatening. =Fish-ponds.=--To dream of fishponds,
denotes thriving. =Flageolet.=--To dream that you play or hear playing on
a flageolet, denotes trouble and contention, and being overthrown at law.
=Flesh.=--If anyone dreams he is increased in flesh, he will gain wealth.
On the contrary, if he dreams he is grown lean and thin, if he be rich, he
will grow poor, or at least conceal his wealth, and he will be in a mean
condition. To dream of eating all sorts of meat, whether flesh or fish,
signifies either neglect of business, or anger and sickness. =Flies.=--To
dream of a swarm of flies, denotes that you have many enemies; it also
denotes that your sweetheart is not sincere, and cares but little about
you. To dream you kill them is a very good omen. =Flute.=--To dream you
play or hear playing on a flute, signifies trouble and contention.
=Fool.=--For a man to dream he is a fool, is good for those who would
govern and teach children. =Folly.=--For a woman to dream she is become
foolish, and is publicly guilty of folly, is a sign she will have a boy,
who in time will grow great. If a maid, she will be speedily married, and
that to an honest man. =Forest.=--To dream that you are walking in a
forest, signifies trouble. =Fields.=--To dream you are in green fields, is
a very favorable omen. To dream you are in ploughed fields, forebodes some
severe disputes that will be brought upon you by some person who has no
children. To the lover, it denotes disappointment; to the married,
unhappiness and undutiful children; to the tradesman, loss of business
and a prison. To dream you are in a meadow covered with flowers, is a very
favorable omen. If you are soliciting a place or favor, it portends you
will surely obtain it. =Figs.=--To dream of figs, is the forerunner of
prosperity and happiness. To the lover, they denote the accomplishment of
your wishes. To the tradesman, increase of trade. They are also indicative
of legacy. =Fighting.=--To dream you are fighting, denotes to the lover
that you will lose the object of your affections through a foolish
quarrel. It also forebodes much opposition to your wishes, with loss of
character and property. After such a dream, you are urgently recommended
to quit your present situation, because such a dream indicates that you
will not prosper in it. To the sailor it denotes storm and shipwreck, with
disappointment in love. =Fire.=--To dream of this subtle element, denotes
health and happiness to the lover, marriage to the object of his
affections and many children. It also denotes that you will be very angry
with some one on a trifling occasion. To dream you see burning lights
descending as it were from heaven, is a very bad sign indeed. It portends
some dreadful accident to the dreamer, such as being hanged, losing your
head, having your brains dashed out, breaking your legs, getting into
prison, or other strange accidents. To the lover, it also denotes the loss
of the affections of your sweetheart. To the tradesman, bad success in
business. To dream that you are burnt by fire, denotes great danger, and
that enemies will injure you. To the sailor, storms and shipwreck.
=Fishing.=--To dream you are fishing, is a sure sign of sorrow and
trouble. If you catch any fish, you will be successful in love and
business. If you catch none, you will never marry your present sweetheart,
nor succeed in your present undertakings. If they slip out of your hands
after you have caught them, the person you marry will be of a roving
disposition, and some pretended friend will deceive you. =Filberts.=--To
dream of filberts, forebodes much trouble and anger from friends. To the
tradesman, they denote a prison, and decay of trade; to the lover, a
complete disappointment; to the married, care and undutiful children.
=Fingers.=--To dream you cut your fingers, if they bleed, is a very good
omen. You will be successful in love, and your sweetheart will prove kind
and true. You will get money from a quarter that you least expect, and be
successful in your enterprises. If you dream that they do not bleed, then
it denotes damage by a variety of accidents. That lawsuits will attend
you, and that you will be unsuccessful in most of your pursuits. In love
you will not succeed with your present sweetheart, who prefers another. To
dream you lose your fingers, denotes the loss of friends, servants, goods,
trade and sweethearts. =Feasting.=--To dream that you are at a feast,
denotes that you will meet with many disappointments, particularly in the
thing which you are most anxious about. In love it forebodes much
uneasiness between sweethearts, and to them which are married it foretells
undutiful children, with many heavy losses. =Fleas.=--To dream you are
tormented with these little insects is unfavorable. =Floods.=--To dream
of a flood, shows that you will meet with great opposition from rich
neighbors, and that a rich rival will attempt to alienate the affections
of your mistress. To the tradesman it denotes lawsuits, loss of business,
and a prison; to the sailor, it denotes much success by sea, but danger on
shore; to the farmer, it indicates loss of cattle and a dispute with the
landlord. To dream you are drowned in a flood, denotes that you will quit
your native land and after many hardships and perils return to it rich and
happy. That you will marry a pretty woman and have fine children.
=Flowers.=--To dream you are gathering flowers, is a very favorable omen.
Expect to thrive in everything you undertake and that you will be
successful in love, marry happily and have beautiful children. Should they
wilt in your hands, then expect heavy losses in trade, that your
sweetheart will die; or, if you are married, that you will lose your
husband or wife and also your favorite child. =Flying.=--To dream you are
flying, is a very excellent omen. It foretells elevation of fortune. That
you will arrive at dignity in the state and be happy. If you are in love,
your sweetheart will be true to you, and if you marry, you will have many
children, who will all do very well and be very happy. It indicates that
you will take a long journey, which will turn out advantageous to you.
=Forge.=--To dream of working a smith’s forge, denotes a brain full of
projects. The blowing with the bellows signifies the getting of a wife and
the hammering on the anvil her scolding tongue. =Fortune.=--If any man
become poor after he hath been rich, dreams he has the same land and
possessions he had before, it signifies that his good fortune will return.
=Fountain.=--To dream that you are at a fountain, is a very favorable
omen. If the waters are clear, it denotes riches and honors; and in love,
it foretells great happiness in the marriage state, and that your
sweetheart is of an amiable disposition and true to you; but if the waters
appear muddy, then it denotes vexation and trouble, disappointment in
business, inconstancy in your sweetheart and misery in the marriage state.
=Fox.=--To dream of this crafty animal is the forerunner of much
difficulty. If you are in love, your sweetheart will turn out of a sour,
disagreeable, ill-natured disposition. If you are in trade, sharpers will
endeavor to defraud you and overreach you in bargains. =Friend.=--To dream
you see a friend dead, betokens hasty news of a joyful nature. If you are
in love, it foretells a speedy marriage with the object of your
affections. =Frogs.=--To dream of frogs, is a very favorable omen. To the
farmer, it foretells good crops and an increase of his live stock; to the
tradesman, it denotes success in business; to the lover, a faithful
sweetheart; to the married, an increase of children, who will be very
happy; to the sailor, pleasant and prosperous voyages, with a wife in a
distant country. =Fruits.=--If you dream of fruits when out of season, or
that you are gathering them when green, denotes sickness. If you dream
they are rotten, it foretells poverty. To dream of gathering ripe fruit,
when there is plenty, betokens happiness and riches, and the speedy
receipt of money. If you gather fruit from an old withered tree, it is a
sign that you will unexpectedly inherit the effects of some aged person.
To dream you have made yourself sick by eating fruit, is a sorrowful omen.
=Funeral.=--To dream of a burial, denotes speedy marriage, and that you
will hear of the death or imprisonment of some near relation or esteemed
friend. It also foretells the acquisition of wealth, and that an estate
will fall to you from a distant relation by your mothers side. If you see
any particular person attending a funeral, either that person, or some
friend of his, will die and leave you something. If there is a hearse with
feathers on it, you will many some rich person yourself, or assist at some
relation’s wedding, who will marry well and be a friend to you.
=Fairy.=--For a maiden to dream she sees a fairy, shows she will soon
change her present state by becoming the wife of a good husband. It is
good for women under any circumstances to dream of fairies, but it denotes
evil to men, and no man should undertake any important matter for several
days after, or it will surely end in his being disappointed. =Files.=--To
dream of dealing in files, prognosticates activity. To purchase files,
shows you will have many applications to attend to business. To sell
files, shows you will have others to work for you, yielding profitably.
=Flambeau.=--To dream of flambeaux, is a sign of trouble, excitement and
distress. To the merchant, losses at sea; to the mechanic, want of
employment; to lovers, deceit and treachery. =Flag.=--To dream of raising
a flag signifies that your name will be widely known; to dream of seeing a
flag floating, signifies good news. =Furnace.=--To dream of seeing a
furnace, indicates a quarrel which will cost you dear friends. If you heat
the furnace, you will be the only sufferer. =Ferry.=--To dream of crossing
a ferry, signifies that indecision in an important matter will make you
the laughing-stock of your friends. =Fortress.=--If you are confined in a
fortress in your dream, your plans in life will suffer from undue
influence of others. If you dream of placing others in confinement, look
for valuable goods, which will enrich you. =Fairs.=--To dream of going to
fairs threatens the person so dreaming with having his pockets picked, or
robbed in some other way.

=Gloves.=--To dream of receiving a gift of a pair of gloves, signifies an
offer of friendship. If the gloves are light, the connection will be
pleasant; if dark, it is doubtful. To receive a package of gloves,
signifies much good offered to you at one time. To present gloves in a
dream, signifies a gift in charity. To dream of old, ragged gloves,
signifies disappointment and deceit from your dearest friends.
=Ghost.=--To dream of seeing it, signifies a marriage in the family. If
you dream it speaks, prepare to die. =Gallows.=--To dream of the gallows
is a most fortunate omen. It shows that the dreamer will become rich and
arrive at great honors. To the lover, it shows the consummation of his
most sanguine wishes, and that by marriage he will become rich and happy,
have many children, particularly a son, who will become a great man, and
be the founder of his family’s honor. =Garden.=--To dream you are walking
in a garden, is of a very favorable nature. It portends elevation in
fortune and dignity. To the lover, it denotes great success and an
advantageous marriage. To the tradesman, it promises increase of business.
To the farmer, plentiful crops, and to the sailor, prosperous voyages.
=Geese.=--To dream of geese is a forerunner of good; expect to see a
long-absent friend. They denote success and riches to the dreamer in the
furtherance of his pursuits. In love, they augur speedy marriage and
fidelity in your sweetheart. =Giants.=--To dream of seeing giants is
ominous of good. =Gifts.=--To dream you have anything given you, is a sign
that some good is about to happen to you. It also denotes that a speedy
marriage will take place between you and your sweetheart. To dream you
have given anything away, is the forerunner of adversity, and in love
denotes sickness and inconstancy in your sweetheart or partner.
=Glass.=--To dream of glass, marks inconstancy in your sweetheart, and in
business of bad success in your undertakings in life. To dream you break
glass, shows that your sweetheart will forsake you, and that you will
unexpectedly meet with misfortunes and troubles. To dream you receive a
glassful of water, is indicative of a speedy marriage and that you will
have many children, who will all do well. If the glass appears broken, the
death of your sweetheart, or, if married, of your spouse, is predicted.
For a woman with child, or a married man whilst his wife is with child, to
dream of breaking a glass of wine or water, denotes that the child in the
womb will be preserved after much danger, and perhaps the death of the
mother. If either of them dream that they spill wine or water, it is
indicative that the mother will live but the child will die. =Globe.=--To
dream that you are looking at a globe, foretells much good, and that you
will become a great traveler. =Gold.=--To dream of gold, is a very good
omen. It denotes success in your present undertakings, after experiencing
some little difficulties. If you receive gold in bars, you will inherit an
estate in a far distant country, and have some trouble in getting
possession of it. If you receive eagles or any other gold coin, your
affairs will prosper, your sweetheart will be true and marry you; you will
have many children and be very happy. If you pay gold, it betokens an
increase of friends and business. If you let gold fall, it denotes an
attack from thieves. If you are in trade, some swindler will attempt to
defraud you. If you pick up gold, it denotes that some quarrel will be
settled to your advantage. If you are in prison, it shows you will
speedily be released. It also denotes the death of a husband or wife, if
you are married. If single, of your sweetheart. =Good.=--To dream that we
do good to one, signifies jollity and pleasure, and to dream that others
do us good, is profit and gain. =Gooseberries.=--To dream of gooseberries,
indicates many children, chiefly sons, and an accomplishment of your
present pursuits. To the sailor, they declare dangers in his next voyage.
To the maiden, a proving husband, and to the man, a rakish wife.
=Grapes.=--To dream of grapes, foretells to the maiden that her husband
will be a cheerful companion and a great songster. They denote much
happiness in marriage and success in trade. If you are in love, they augur
a speedy union between you and your sweetheart. =Grave.=--To dream you see
a grave, foretells sickness and disappointment. If you are in love, you
will surely never marry your present sweetheart. If you go into the grave,
it shows you will experience a loss of property and that false friends
will defame you. If you come out of the grave, it denotes success in your
undertakings, that you will rise in the world, become rich, and if you are
in love, that you will speedily marry your sweetheart. If you take another
out of the grave, you will be the means of saving the life of a person who
will be a very great friend to you, and receive some unexpected legacy.
=Grain.=--To dream you see any kind of grain and that one gathers it,
signifies profit and gain. =Games.=--To dream one plays at ball or top,
signifies travail and pains, and to gain wealth by contention and injury.
To leap, run, or dance, signifies prosperity in affairs; but to dance
without music, foretells want of money. =Garlic.=--For a man to dream he
eats garlic, signifies he shall discover hidden secrets and meet with some
domestic jars. Yet to dream he has it in the house, is good. =Gibbet.=--To
dream you see a person hanging on a gibbet, is a sign of damage and great
affliction. =Girdle.=--To dream that you are girt with an old girdle,
signifies labor and pains. A new girdle signifies honor. =Gin.=--To dream
of drinking gin, forebodes short life and many changes will happen very
suddenly, which will be chiefly very pleasant, but that they will end with
dissatisfaction. =Gondola.=--If a female dreams she is sailing in a
gondola, she will speedily marry a person who will make her happy. If a
man dream he is in a gondola, in smooth water, it is an excellent dream;
but if the water be muddy or troubled, it denotes much strife. =Guns.=--To
dream you see people firing off guns or cannon, augurs that the dreamer
will experience much adversity. To dream that they are firing at you,
shows that you will be exposed to many perilous dangers, such as
shipwreck, assassination, or loss of liberty. If you are firing at them
yourself, it foretells that you will be involved in a lawsuit that will
prove prejudicial to you.

=Hay.=--To dream you cut it, signifies that you will have great influence
in society. To dream of raking it together, denotes that you will stand at
the head of assemblies. =Hills.=--To dream you are traveling over high
hills and wading through great difficulties, having lost your way, shows
you shall meet with assistance and have good counsel in your difficulties.
=Hail.=--To dream you are in a hailstorm, presages great sorrow in life.
If you are in love, it forewarns you against marrying your present
sweetheart, who will prove of very bad temper and make you miserable.
=Hair.=--For a man to dream his hair is long, like a woman’s, signifies
cowardice and effeminacy, and that the person dreaming will be deceived by
a woman. To dream one sees a woman without hair, signifies famine, poverty
and sickness. To see a man bald and without hair, signifies the contrary.
=Hands.=--If any one dreams that his hands are comelier and stronger than
ordinary, he will be employed in some important affairs, which he will
bring to a happy issue. If one dreams that his hand is cut off, or that it
has grown lean and dry, or hath been burnt, he will grow poor. If a woman
dreams thus, she will lose her husband, or her eldest son, or fall into a
decay. If any one dreams that he works with his right hand, it is a sign
of good fortune to him and his family. If with the left hand, that denotes
bad luck. To dream the hand is hairy, signifies trouble and imprisonment.
=Hanged.=--To dream of seeing people hanged, or that you are going to be
hanged yourself, denotes that you will rise above your present condition
by marriage. =Hat.=--To dream your hat is torn or dirty, signifies damage
and dishonor. But to dream you have a hat on that pleases you, signifies
joy, profit, and good success in business. =Hogs’ Bristles.=--To dream
that you have hogs’ bristles, signifies great and violent dangers.
=Horns.=--To dream one hath horns on his head, signifies dominion,
grandeur and royalty. To dream you see a man with horns on his head,
signifies he is in danger both of the loss of his person and estate.
=Horses.=--To dream of horses is a particularly good sign; inasmuch that
if any one dreams that he is mounted on a stately horse, full of mettle,
nimble and well-harnessed, he will have a handsome, noble and rich wife,
provided the horse be his own. To dream one sees a horse running,
signifies prosperity and the accomplishment of one’s desires. To dream of
riding on a tired horse, shows one shall fall desperately in love. To
dream you see a horse dead, is a sign that stagnation will take place in
your business, with some losses; but these may be overcome if the horse be
well in flesh and has not died a natural death. =Hunger.=--To dream one is
unusually hungry, and that his appetite craves sustenance, shows he will
be ingenious, laborious and eager in getting an estate, and will grow
rich. =Husbandmen.=--To see yourself become a husbandman in your dream,
shows you shall meet with great toil, yet after awhile become rich. If you
dream you are ploughing, it denotes success, and, to single persons,
speedy marriage; and if the fields be full of flowers, it is a sign of
much happiness. =Hatred.=--To dream of hatred or being hated, whether of
friends or enemies, is ill. =Heaven.=--To dream of heaven, and that you
are there, signifies grandeur and glory. =Head.=--To dream you have a
great head, or a head bigger than ordinary, and very highly raised, that
signifies dignity, esteem. If a sick person dream thus, it prognosticates
both the headache and violent fever. If one dreams his head is cut off by
robbers and murderers, that signifies loss of children, relations, estate
or wife; and to the wife so dreaming, the loss of her husband. To dream
that one cuts off another’s head, signifies assurance of effecting
business, or revenge upon your enemies. To dream you cut off the head of a
pullet, or a green goose, signifies joy and recreation. To dream one hath
the head of a lion or wolf, or some other cruel beast, it is a good sign
to the dreamer. To dream one hath the head of a dog, horse, or ass, or
such four-footed beast, is servitude, pain and misery to the dreamer. To
dream one hath a bird’s head, argues one shall not stay long in his
country. If one dreams that he is careful to comb and trim his hair, it is
a sign he shall dispose well of his business. To dream you wash your head,
signifies deliverance from danger. =Hen.=--To dream that you hear hens
cackle, or that you catch them, signifies joy, profit and assurance of the
dispatch of business. To dream that you are turned into a hen, signifies
disquiet. To dream that you see a hen lay eggs, signifies gain. To see a
hen with her chickens, signifies loss or damage. To dream that a hen
crows, signifies sadness and trouble. =Hornet.=--To dream of hornets,
shows you will have to do with people who will assault and discredit you.
=House.=--To dream of building a house is a good omen; in love, that your
sweetheart is good-tempered and faithful, and will make you very happy; to
dream you see a house on fire, foretells hasty news. If it be your own
house that is destroyed, the news will be bad. If your enemy’s house, it
will be good. =Hunting.=--To dream you are hunting and that the game is
killed, shows much trouble through the pretensions of false friends, but
that you will discover them and overcome all their machinations.

=Ice.=--To dream of ice is a favorable omen. To the lover it shows your
sweetheart is of an amiable temper and faithful. To dream you are sliding
or skating on the ice, denotes that you will pursue some unprofitable
concern and be much worried by your engagements. =Invasion.=--For a maiden
to dream of invasion, is a sign that some evil-disposed person will
endeavor to lead her astray; to a man in business, it denotes much
competition; to a mechanic, loss of his situation. =Intrigue.=--To dream
you are connected in an intrigue, is ominous of evil. =Infant.=--If an
unmarried woman dreams of an infant, it prognosticates that she will go
through some trouble, but for a man to dream of infants, is good.
=Inn.=--To dream of being in an inn, is a very unfavorable dream. It
denotes poverty and want of success in undertakings; expect soon to be
yourself, or some of your family, committed to prison. If you are sick, it
denotes you will never recover. To the tradesman it shows loss of trade
and bad servants. =Inquest.=--To dream of being at an inquest, denotes
prosperity; to dream that you are the subject on which the inquest is
held, prognosticates that you will come into prosperity by the death of
some rich person; to dream an inquest is held on the body of a friend is
also good to the dreamer. =Idiot.=--If any one dreams he is turned idiot,
or mad, and is guilty of public extravagancies, he shall be long-lived, a
favorite, and gain pleasure and profit by the people. =Image.=--To dream
of an image or statue, signifies children, and the will and affections of
the dreamer. =Infernal Things.=--If any one dreams that he sees the devil,
or any other infernal spirit or representation, it is a very bad dream,
bringing along with it to those sick, death, and to the healthy,
melancholy, anger and violent sickness. =Iron.=--For one to dream that he
is hurt with iron, signifies that he shall receive some damage. To dream
that one trades with a stranger in iron, signifies losses and misfortune.
=Idol.=--To dream you see persons worshiping at an idol, betokens a change
of affairs and much for the better. To dream you worship an idol, is a
sign of merriment, such as going to balls, parties or excursions, pleasant
journeys and the like. If a sick person has this dream, they will have a
speedy recovery. =Ignominy.=--For any one to dream they suffer ignominy,
shows he will be unjustly accused of having done wrong, and that he will,
after a little, take a sudden rise in the world. =Illumination.=--It is a
certain sign of war when persons dream of seeing a city illuminated. To
dream your own house is illuminated, betokens much quarrelling among
relatives. =Injury.=--To dream you receive an injury, signifies that you
have many friends--no enemies. If you dream of inflicting injury, you will
both receive and dispense blessings. =Ink.=--If you dream of black ink,
you will become involved in some disgraceful scheme. If you dream of red
ink, good news awaits you.

=Jollity.=--To dream of jollity, feasts and merry-making, is a good and
prosperous dream, and promiseth to the dreamer great preferment.
=Jessamine.=--To dream of this beautiful flower, foretells good luck. To
lovers, it is a sure sign they will be speedily married. =Jeopardy.=--If
you dream that you are in jeopardy, it will be very fortunate for you. If
a person so dreaming be in business, it foretells success and great
profit. =Jubilee.=--To dream that you are at a jubilee, is a sure sign
that you will have a fortune left you by some rich relations.
=Jockey.=--If a female dreams she sees a jockey riding at full speed, she
will have an offer of marriage made her very unexpectedly. For a man to
dream he rides with, or sees a jockey riding at a race, denotes a sudden
good turn in his affairs. =Jug.=--For one to dream of drinking out of a
jug, is a sure sign of going on a journey. If the jug be large, the
journey will be long; if small, the journey will be short; and so, if the
liquid drank be pleasant, so will the journey, and if unpleasant, the
journey will be full of troubles. =Juniper.=--It is unlucky to dream of
the juniper, especially if the person who so dreams be sick. But to dream
of gathering juniper berries, if it be in winter, denotes prosperity.
=Joy.=--To dream of joy and festivity, is a token of good for such as
would marry, or it betokens enjoyment for those fond of society. To the
sad and fearful it announces absence of heaviness and fear. =Juniper
Berries.=--To dream of these, signifies that the person so dreaming will
shortly arrive at great honors and become a great person. To the married
it foretells the birth of a male child. =Jail.=--If you dream of seeing
others in jail, you will be deprived of your own liberty. If you dream of
being imprisoned, you will be elevated to a high station in life and
increase your number of friends. =Jewels.=--To dream of possessing jewels,
signifies that you are on the road to happiness. =Jury.=--If you dream of
being tried by a jury, you will lose your sweetheart, and gain the
affections of another on a voyage. If you dream of being acquitted by a
jury, you will shortly meet with interesting and romantic adventures.

=Kill.=--To dream you kill a man, signifies assuredness of business. To
dream you kill your father, is a bad sign. To dream you are killed,
denotes loss to him whom you dreamed has killed you. =Keys.=--To dream of
keys is favorable to a person in trade, and to a sailor, they denote some
gift, and that the dreamer will become rich. To dream of finding a key,
denotes an addition to your estate. If you are married, it foretells the
birth of a child. If you give another a key, you will be speedily married.
In love, keys betoken faithfulness and a good tempered sweetheart.

    To dream your keys are gone or lost
    Denotes that you’ll be vexed or crossed.

=Knives.=--To dream of knives is a very unpropitious omen. It betokens
lawsuits, poverty, disgrace, strife and a general failure in your
projects. In love, it shows that your sweetheart is of a bad temper, and
unfaithful, and that if you marry you will live in enmity and misery.
=Kissing.=--For a man to dream of kissing a young maid, and that she
vanishes away before he can accomplish his desire, denotes that the next
day he shall see great store of good cheer. To dream you kiss a person
deceased, signifies long life. =Kite.=--To dream of your seeing a kite,
showeth you shall be in danger of thieves and robbers.

=Ladder.=--To dream you ascend a ladder, signifies honor. But to dream you
descend a ladder, betokens damage. =Lamb.=--To dream that you feed or
bring a lamb to the slaughter signifies torment. To dream that you see a
lamb, or young kids, signifies extraordinary comfort. =Leaping.=--To dream
you are leaping over walls, doors or gates, is a sign that you will
encounter many difficulties in your present pursuits, and that your
sweetheart will not marry you. =Legs.=--To dream that your legs are scabby
or itchy, signifies fruitless perplexity and care. To dream one hath a
wooden leg, signifies the alteration of condition, from good to bad, and
from bad to worse. =Letters.=--To dream you receive letters, is
demonstrative of your being beloved by a person of the opposite sex, who
is very much your friend. To dream of writing letters, shows success in
enterprises. =Leopards.=--Dreaming of leopards, foretells honor.
=Lettuce.=--To dream that one eats salads made of lettuce, and other herbs
that may be eaten raw, signifies trouble and difficulty in the management
of affairs. =Lemons.=--To dream of lemons denotes contentions in your
family and uneasiness on account of children. They announce the death of
some relation and disappointment in love. =Lion.=--To dream of seeing this
king of beasts, denotes that you will appear before your betters, and that
you will be promoted to some lucrative office, accumulate riches, and
marry a woman of great spirit. It argues success in trade and prosperity
from a voyage by sea. =Lookingglass.=--To dream of looking in a glass,
denotes children to the married and to the unmarried it promises a lover
speedily. =Lechery.=--To dream of lechery, denotes to the dreamer a spell
of sickness. =Leapfrog.=--For a man to dream he plays at leapfrog is bad.
For many causes, troubles and vexations will soon overtake him. If a
maiden has this dream, it signifies that her lover is inconstant. =Leap
Year.=--To dream of a leap year is one of the best and most lucky dreams.
Everything you undertake about this time will prosper and your efforts
will be fourfold successful. It is like good to male and female.
=Leeward.=--For a captain or seafaring man to dream his vessel drifts
leeward, is ominous of a storm. =Land.=--If a man dreams he hath good
lands well enclosed with pleasant pastures, bestowed upon him, he will
have a handsome wife. But if the land seems spacious and not enclosed,
that denotes pleasure, joy and riches. If he dreams that the said
unenclosed lands have fair gardens and fountains, fields, pleasant groves
and orchards adjoining thereto, that signifies that he will marry a
discreet, chaste and beautiful wife, and that she will bear him handsome
children. If he dreams the land is sown with wheat, that signifies money
and profit, with care and industry. But if he dreams it is sown with any
kind of pulse, that denotes affliction and trouble. =Lantern.=--He that
dreams he sees a lantern with a light in it, extinguished, that signifies
unto him sadness, sickness and poverty. =Laurel.=--To dream you see a
laurel tree is a token of victory and pleasure, and if you be married, it
denotes the inheritance of possession by your wife. To dream one sees or
smells laurel, if it be a woman, she shall bear children. If a maid, she
will be suddenly married. =Law.=--As to matters of law, to dream of
places, of pleading, judges, attorneys, &c., signifies trouble, expense
and revealing of secrets. If a sick man dreameth he obtains a suit, he
shall come to a better estate. =Lizard.=--To dream that one sees a lizard,
signifies ill-luck and misfortune by secret enemies. =Logs.=--To dream
that one is cleaving a log is a sign that strangers shall come to the
party dreaming. =Light.=--To dream you see a great light is a happy
presage. It denotes that you will attain great honors and become very
rich. In love, it shows a sweetheart of an amiable disposition, that you
will marry well, have children and be very happy. =Lightning.=--To dream
of lightning without tempest, and falling near, without touching the body,
signifies change of place. If a man dreams he saw lightning fall below
him, it will hinder his traveling. But if you dream that you are all
burned and consumed with lightning, it is death to the dreamer.
=Lilies.=--To dream that one sees, holds, smells lilies out of their
season, it signifies that the hope of the thing desired will be
frustrated. But the same dream of lilies in their season is good.
=Linen.=--To dream you are dressed in clean linen, denotes that you will
shortly receive some glad tidings. That your sweetheart is faithful, and
will marry. If it is dirty, then it denotes poverty, and disappointment in
love. =Lioness.=--Dreaming of seeing a lioness is good to the rich or
poor. Marriage is also hereby signified. Those that have children upon
this dream shall lose them. But if you dream that she destroys you it is
death to the dreamer. For persons at sea to dream of this animal is a sign
of storm. =Lean.=--If one dreams he is grown lean and wasted, he will be
disturbed and have suits at law, or some other ill business that will
occasion the loss of his estate, or else he is in danger of falling sick.
Nevertheless, if a woman dreams the tongue grows less, it signifies unto
her honors, wisdom, prudence and discretion. =Lice.=--To dream that you
are lousy and that you are killing a great number of them, is a very good
omen. It denotes great riches to the dreamer. They also portend
deliverance from enemies, and that you will overcome much slander and
malice. =Lips.=--To dream that one hath red, handsome lips, is a sign that
your friends enjoy their health. And to have them dry and chapped, the
contrary. =Lying.=--To tell a lie in a dream is not good, except by
players and jesters, who practise it, and deceive people. =Lake.=--To
dream of a peaceful lake, denotes content. To dream of gazing into a lake,
denotes an access of fortune from an unexpected source. To dream of
floating on a lake, signifies to glide through life without trouble and
with many friends. =Legacy.=--To dream of receiving one, denotes losing
whatever you own that is in the hands of another, involving you in
litigation, debt, unhappiness and trouble. =Laughing.=--To dream of
laughing violently, betokens sorrow and weeping. It also denotes change of
circumstances and friends. =Love.=--To dream of being in love, denotes
that you are not susceptible. If you dream of another loving you, you will
pass through life alone and unsought. =Lamp.=--To dream of a burning lamp,
signifies prosperity. To dream of a lamp suddenly extinguished, signifies
the death of a near friend. =Losses.=--To dream you lose something on
which you set great value, denotes that you will hear of something which
will give you great pleasure. If you dream of losing money, you will
receive a gift from some one which will astonish and please you. To dream
that you have lost some part of your dress, foretells you that there is
some one intending to confer some favor on you.

=Malice.=--To dream that some one bears you malice, foretells a pleasant
prospect in your worldly affairs; and that you will be advanced to some
important station either by marriage, if you are not married, or if so,
through the influence of friends. =Mansion.=--To dream that you inhabit a
mansion, is not good; expect some calamity happening either to yourself,
or some relative, or lover. =Maid.=--To dream you obtain a young maid,
signifies joy. To dream you take away a maid by force, signifies sorrow.
=Markets.=--To dream of markets filled with goods and folks, is a good
dream to those that traffic. But riding to market signifies a short
voyage. If in a storm, the voyage will be difficult and the success of
your voyage doubtful. If in fair weather, the result will be the contrary.
=Marriage.=--To dream you are married, is ominous of death, and very
unfavorable to the dreamer. It denotes poverty, a prison, and misfortune.
To dream you assist at a wedding, is the forerunner of some pleasing news
and great success. To dream of lying with your newly married husband or
wife, threatens danger and sudden misfortunes and also that you will lose
part of your property. To the sailor, it argues storm and shipwrecks with
a narrow escape from death. =Milk.=--To dream you drink milk, is an
extraordinary good sign. And to dream you see breasts of milk, signifies
profit. To dream you are carrying milk is a good sign, but if you fall and
spill it, misfortune will befall you, from which it would be difficult to
extricate yourself. =Mad.=--To dream you are mad, and that you are in
company with mad people, is very good to the dreamer. It promises long
life, riches, happy marriage, success in trade and good children. If you
are a farmer, some accident will happen to a part of your live stock, but
you will have plentiful crops. If you are in lawsuit, it will determine
greatly in your favor. =Mice.=--To dream of mice, denotes prosperity,
success in love, and a happy marriage. For a married woman to dream of
mice, it is a token that she will be with child shortly and that the fruit
of her womb will become very rich and powerful. =Midwife.=--To dream you
see a midwife, is a revealing of secrets, and signifies hurt. To those who
are kept by force, to dream of a midwife, signifies liberty. If a woman
that is not with child dreameth often of seeing her, it forebodeth she
shall have a fit of sickness, which shall be long and continuous.
=Martyr.=--If one dreams he dies for religion, that man will arrive at
great honor. It signifies also that his soul will be happy hereafter.
=Meat.=--To dream that you see the meat you have eaten, signifies loss and
damage. =Measles.=--If any one dreams he hath the measles, it denotes he
shall gain profit and wealth, but it shall be with infamy. =Mire.=--

    To dream you wade in mire and stubble,
    Foretelleth surely toil and trouble,
    Yet perseverance will not fail
    O’er toil and trouble to prevail.

=Monkeys.=--To dream of these mischievous creatures, is ominous of evil.
They announce deceit in love, unfaithfulness in the married state,
undutiful children, malicious enemies, and an attack by thieves.
=Mountains.=--To dream you see steep and craggy mountains, presages
difficulties in accomplishing your designs. If you ascend them and gain
the top, you will be successful in whatever you undertake, become very
rich, and arrive at great honors in the state. To a maid, they denote that
she will marry a man who will become rich and powerful, and that her
children will be people of consequence. =Mulberries.=--To dream of
mulberries is of good import. To the maiden, they foretell a speedy and
happy marriage. To the lover, constancy and affection in his mistress.
They also denote wealth, honors and many children. They are particularly
favoring to sailors and farmers. =Music.=--To dream you hear delicious
music is a very favorable omen, promising joyful news from a long absent
friend. To married people it denotes sweet tempered children. In love it
shows that your sweetheart is very fond of you, is good tempered, sincere
and constant. Rough and discordant music foretells trouble, vexation and
disappointment. =Monster.=--To see a monster in the sea is not good; but
out of the sea every fish and great monster is good. =Money.=--To dream of
receiving money, is a good omen. In love, it foretells a speedy marriage
and many children. If you dream you lose money, it is a proof you will be
deceived in love, and be unsuccessful in some favorite pursuit. To dream
you are paying money, foretells the birth of a son destined to cut a great
figure in life. =Moon.=--To dream of the moon is a very favorable omen; it
denotes sudden joy, great success in love; but unfaithfulness in the
married state, undutiful children, and malicious enemies. =Mother.=--To
dream you see your own mother living, signifies joy. To see your mother
dead, signifies misfortune. =Melons.=--To dream of melons, to sick persons
is a prognostic of recovery, by reason of their humidity or juicy
substance. =Monuments.=--If a sick person dreams of seeing monuments, he
or she is dreaming will quickly recover. For the healthy to dream of
monuments is a sign of good luck. =Misery.=--Dreaming that you are in
great misery on account of some calamity that has befallen either your
sweetheart, partner in life, or a relation, denotes that you may expect
some important event occurring, which will be deeply interesting to you.
=Mad Dog.=--To dream that you meet a mad dog denotes that you will be
fortunate in any undertaking in which you are engaged, and that success
will crown your efforts. =Murder.=--To dream that you see a murder
committed, indicates that you will shortly have the pleasure of welcoming
one whom you had not expected to see again in this world. =Murderer.=--If
any one dreams of being a murderer be sure you will be slandered and
calumniated by one who has been a professed friend and admirer previously.
=Musician.=--For one to dream of being a musician, who understands nothing
of the art of music, is an indication that the dreamer will have peace and
comfort in the domestic state.

=Nakedness.=--To dream you see a man naked, signifies fear and terror. To
dream you see a woman naked, signifies honor and joy, provided she be fair
skinned and handsome. But if she is crooked, old, wrinkled or otherwise
ill made, and black withal, it signifies shame, repentance and ill luck.
=Nightmare.=--To dream of being ridden by the nightmare is a sign that a
woman so dreaming, shall be domineered over by a fool. =Night-walks.=--To
dream of walking in the night, signifies trouble and melancholy.
=Nutmegs.=--To dream of nutmegs is a sign that many changes will overtake
you. =Navigation.=--If one dreams that he is sailing in a boat and
recreating himself without fear, he will have comfort and success in his
affairs, but if the water be tempestuous, it falleth out contrarily. To
dream of being in a ship or boat, and in danger of oversetting or
shipwreck, it is a sign of danger unless the party be a prisoner or
captive, and in that case it denotes liberty and freedom.
=Night-birds.=--To dream of any kind of night-birds, as the owl, bittern
and bat, is ominous, and those who have such dreams should undertake no
business on the day following. He that travels by sea or land, and sees in
his dream any of these birds, will fall into a great tempest or into the
hands of thieves. =Nightingale.=--To dream of the nightingale signifieth
good work, and principally wedding. =Nine-pins.=--To dream of playing at
nine-pins is a sign of quarreling; if successful, you will get the better
of your adversary; if the reverse, you will be worsted. =Night-hag.=--For
a woman to dream of a night-hag, denotes that she will be much slandered
by some one whom she deems her friend. For a man to dream of this
nonentity, is a sign that some woman is endeavoring to do him an injury.
=Neigh.=--To dream you hear horses neigh, augurs that you will have new
and powerful friends, who will do you much service. =Negroes.=--It is not
good to dream of negroes, unless they be singing or dancing, or otherwise
making merry. To dream of seeing negroes in a church is ominous of evil.
=Nose.=--To dream one has a fair and great nose is a good to all, for it
denotes prosperity in affairs, and acquaintance with rich persons.
=Nosegays.=--To dream of gathering and making nosegays is unlucky, showing
that our hope shall wither as flowers do in a nosegay. =Nut
Tree.=--Dreaming that you see nut trees, signifies riches and content
gained with labor and pain. Dreaming that you find nuts that have been
hid, signifies that you will find treasure. =Nails.=--To dream your nails
are growing long is very good, and denotes riches, prosperity and
happiness; great success in love, a good, industrious husband or wife,
with dutiful children; it also foretells that you will suddenly receive a
sum of money that will be of great use to you. =Nectarines.=--To dream of
nectarines is ominous of strife between friends, of riches to the farmer
and tradesman, of infidelity to lovers, of children to the married, of bad
weather to the sailor, and to the poor they announce plenty and increase
of wages. =Nuts.=--To dream you see clusters of them denotes riches and
happiness. To the lover, success and a good-tempered sweetheart. If you
are gathering them, it is not a good omen, for you will pursue some matter
that will not turn out to your advantage. If you crack them, the person
who courts you, or to whom you pay your addresses, will treat you with
indifference, or be very unfaithful. =Needle.=--For a female to dream she
is busy with the needle, indicates that she is about to take a journey
either of pleasure or necessity. For one of the male sex to dream he is
using the needle (except he is a tailor), forebodes a series of
distressing and unpleasant matters are about to harass and perplex him.

=Olives.=--To dream you see olives, denotes happiness, and that you will
be successful in all your present undertakings. To the lover, they
foretell a speedy marriage with the object of your affections. If you are
gathering them off the trees, they announce much trouble and vexation
through friends and children; to the lover, they show your sweetheart is
unfaithful. =Onions.=--

    To dream of eating onions means
    Much strife in thy domestic scenes;
    Secrets found out or else betrayed,
    And many falsehoods made and said.

=Oysters.=--To dream you are eating oysters, is a very favorable omen.
=Ocean.=--To dream you are on the ocean with a woman, is a sign some
female friend is deceitful, or that you are deceitful in some friends. It
is unlucky to dream you swim, walk on, or catch fish in the season. But it
is nevertheless lucky to dream of the ocean to any person about to go on a
journey, unless, indeed, it be very tempestuous. =Overturned.=--If a woman
dreams she be overturned while riding, it is ominous that she shall be
greatly distressed for a short time. For a man to have this dream, denotes
that some animal to which he is attached will sicken and perhaps die.
=Orphans.=--Whoever dreams of orphans will receive profits or riches by
the hand of a stranger. For a man to dream of a female orphan, denotes
that his wife will be rich. To dream about orphans in any way is an
excellent dream to both sexes. =Office.=--To dream you are turned out of
your office, foretells death and loss of property. If you are in love, it
foretells want of affection in your sweetheart and misery if you marry the
present object of your affection. =Oil.=--Dreaming that you are anointed
with oil, is good for women, but for men, denotes shame. =Olive
Trees.=--Dreaming that you see an olive tree with olives, denotes peace,
delight, concord, liberty, dignity, and fruition of your desires. To dream
that you beat the olives down, is good for all but servants. =Oven.=--If
you dream that you see an oven hot, it signifies change of place.
=Owl.=--To dream of this bird at night is a bad omen. It foretells
sickness, poverty and imprisonment. It also forewarns you some male friend
is perfidious. =Oxen.=--Dreaming of oxen denotes a year of plenty and
fruitfulness. But if they appear poor and lean it threatens a year of
scarcity and famine. To dream you feed oxen is a good sign, but to see
oxen go to water is a bad sign. =Old Man.=--For a woman to dream she is
courted by an old man, is a sure prognostic that she will receive a sum of
money and be successful in her undertakings. For a maid to dream of it,
shows that she will marry a rich young fellow, and have many children by
him, who will all become rich. =Old Woman.=--For a man to dream he is
courting an old woman, and that she returns his love, is a very fortunate
omen. It prefigures success in worldly concerns, that he will many a
beautiful young woman, have lovely children, and be very happy.
=Oranges.=--Dreaming that you see and cut oranges, signifies wounds, grief
and vexation, whether they be ripe or not. =Organ.=--Dreaming that you
hear the sound of an organ, signifies joy. =Orchard.=--To dream that you
are in an orchard, denotes that you will become rich, that you will marry
much to your advantage. For a married person to dream of being in an
orchard, shows an increase of children, who will become rich and live
happy. In love, it denotes affection and constancy in your sweetheart.
=Offend.=--To dream that some one has greatly offended you, is an
indication that you are going a long journey to some one you greatly
esteem. If you dream that you have offended some one you love, it
signifies that you are about to be visited by a friend whom you have not
seen for a long time. =Offer.=--For a female to dream that she has
received an offer of love from one of the male sex, portends troubles and
sorrows await her. For one to dream that she has rejected an offer of
marriage, betokens that she will be surprised with the news that a near
relative is dead and left her a large some of money.

=Pain.=--To dream you are suffering great pain from toothache, headache,
rheumatism, or in any part or your body, denotes that you are about to
receive some glad tidings from one who has been long absent from you.
=Passion.=--To dream that you are very passionate with some one, denotes
that you are likely to be afflicted with some dangerous sickness, probably
unto death. If you dream that some one is in a passion with you, it
betokens some good fortune is about to attend you. =Pedestrian.=--To dream
of making a long journey on foot, betokens great hardships, false friends,
loss of money, unhappy marriage connections and final retirement from the
world. =Peddler.=--To dream of a peddler, signifies that you have a false
estimate of your friends’ value, and that time will show them to be
hypocrites. =Physician.=--To dream of a physician, signifies good in many
forms; if he is relieving you, you have made a favorable impression where
you most desire it; if, as a friend, you meet him in society, look for
true, happy love. =Pleasure.=--If you dream you are enjoying great
pleasure, you may expect serious disappointment and difficulty in some
project that engages your mind. =Puzzle.=--If you dream that you are
puzzled with some intricate matter, and cannot unravel the mystery, be
sure that some one is about to confer a great favor on you.
=Ploughing.=--To dream of ploughing is good; but if the horse seems to
sink into the ground, it portends loss of labor, dearth of corn, and ill
harvest weather. =Pail.=--To dream of milking in a dirty pail, is not a
good sign. =Paper.=--To dream of paper is a good omen, but if it appears
rumpled, it will give you much pain. =Peaches.=--Dreaming of peaches in
season, denotes content, health and pleasure. =Pears.=--Dreaming of pears
well baked, denotes great success and expedition in business.
=Pies.=--Dreaming of making pies is joy and profit. =Pigeons.=--Dreaming
you see pigeons is good. =Pine Trees.=--Dreaming that you see a pine tree,
denotes idleness and remissness. =Pile.=--Dreaming that you pile anything
against the wall, denotes assistance in business. =Poverty.=--To dream of
being in poverty, signifies good to some, but cross fortune to those that
make commodity of their tongue and fair speech. =Prayers.=--To dream you
offer up prayers and supplications to God, signifies happiness.
=Predecessors.=--Dreaming of your predecessors, as grandfathers and other
ancestors, signifies care. =Pit.=--To dream of falling into a pit, shows
that in some way heavy misfortune is about to attend you; that your
sweetheart is false, and prefers another. To a sailor, it forebodes some
sad disaster at the next port you touch at. To dream you are in a pit, and
that you climb out of it, foreshows that you will have many enemies and
experience much trouble, but that you will overcome them, marry well, and
become rich; to sailors, it denotes that they will experience shipwreck,
and be cast on a foreign shore, where they will be hospitably received,
and marry rich and handsome wives and live at ease. =Plays.=--To dream
you are at play, is the forerunner of good luck. It betokens great
happiness in the marriage state, and success in business. To a maid, it
shows speedy marriage with a young man, who will be very successful in
life, and acquire riches and honors and make her happy. =Purse.=--To dream
of finding a purse, is a very favorable omen. It denotes great happiness,
and unlooked for prosperity. In love, it is the sure token of a speedy
marriage, and of being dearly beloved by the object of your affection. To
dream you lose your purse, shows the loss of a friend. In other respects,
it denotes that some pleasant adventure is about to happen to you, by
which you will be the gainer; to the sailor, it denotes the loss of his
sweetheart whilst at sea. =Plums.=--To dream of plums, augurs but little
good to the dreamer; they are the forerunners of ill luck, and show loss
of goods and reputation. They are indicative of infidelity in lovers and
much vexation in the married state. =Palm.=--If one dreams that he sees or
smells the palm, it signifies prosperity. If it be a woman that dreams so,
she shall bear children. If it be a maid, she will be suddenly married.
=Partridges.=--Dreaming of partridges, is a sign that a man shall have to
do with women that are malicious, ungrateful, and void of conscience.
=Plague.=--If any one dreams he hath the plague, it signifies his hidden
store will be discovered, and he will run the risk of losing it.
=Plant.=--Dreaming that you see a plant come out of your body, is death.
To dream of plants quick of growth, as the vine and the peach tree,
denotes that the good and evil portended shall quickly happen. But trees
that are slow of growing, as the oak, olive, &c., show that the good or
evil that shall happen to us shall be long in coming. =Polecat.=--If a man
dreams he has a polecat, he shall have some ill natured woman.
=Pond.=--Dreaming that you see a little pond, signifies the love of a
beautiful woman. If a woman have that dream, she shall have her design
accomplished. To dream that your pond is dried up, signifies poverty or
death. To dream that you are in a boat, upon a pond of clear water, is
very good, and signifies joy and success in affairs. =Pot Herbs.=--To
dream that you see pot herbs, especially such as have a strong smell,
signifies a discovery of hidden secrets and domestic concerns.
=Precipices.=--Dreaming that you see great precipices, signifies much
injury to person and goods. =Prisoners.=--To dream of seeing prisoners
executed, is a good dream, signifies a boldness of courage and a very
clear conscience. =Paths.=--

    To dream in path both straight and fair,
    Your work doth happiness declare;
    But crooked ways denote much ill
    To those who have a headstrong will.

=Peacock.=--To dream of seeing this beautiful bird, is a very good omen.
It denotes great success in trade. To a man, a very beautiful wife, much
riches, and a good place. To a maid, a good and rich husband. To a widow,
that she will be courted by one who will tell her very fine tales without
being sincere. It also denotes prosperity by sea and a handsome wife in a
distant port. =Pictures.=--To dream you are looking at beautiful
pictures, foreshows that you will be allured by false appearances into
some unprofitable concern, that you will waste your time on some idle
project, and that you will always be in pursuit of happiness without
attaining it. In love, it denotes great pleasure in the enjoyment of the
beloved object. It promises a handsome wife, a good husband, and beautiful
children. =Pomegranates.=--To dream of pomegranates, foretells some very
unexpected legacy, by which you will be enabled to make a fortune. They
denote that your sweetheart is of good temper, sings well, and is very
faithful. To the married, they show an increase of riches and children,
and great success in trade.

=Quagmire.=--To dream one is falling into a quagmire, shows obstructions
and difficulty in business. =Quails.=--Dreaming of quails signifies bad
news. =Quicksilver.=--To dream of this mineral is a sign of trouble,
discontent and unhappiness in the married state. To the lover, it is a
sure sign of quarrel; to the sick, a slow recovery. =Quartan.=--To dream
of having this complaint is good, particularly to a married person.
=Quack.=--To dream that you are under the care of quacks, is unfortunate,
and foretells to the person dreaming that he beware of these nuisances in
society. =Quinces.=--To dream of quinces, is favorable to the dreamer. If
you are in prison, you will be shortly liberated; if you are in trouble, a
change will take place that will relieve you from it; if you are sick, you
will soon recover; if you are in love, you will marry and become rich and
happy. =Quilting.=--To dream you are quilting, foretells to an unmarried
female that she will soon be wedded. It is also a good and lucky dream to
a man. To be at a quilting party is good. =Quiver.=--For either sex, if
unmarried, to dream of a quiver, is prognostic of success in love; but to
the married, it is a token of uneasiness to the dreamer. =Quoits.=--If
woman dreams she is playing at quoits, it denotes that she will have some
disagreeable and laborious undertaking to go through. To a man, it is a
sign of quarreling. Quoits were always considered a harbinger of ill luck
by the gipsies. =Quarreling.=--To dream you are quarreling, denotes that
some unexpected news will reach you, and that your sweetheart is about to
be married to another.

=Radishes.=--To dream of radishes signifies a discovery of secrets or
domestic jars. To lovers they foretell misfortune. =Rain.=--To dream of
being in a shower of rain, is particularly favorable to lovers. It denotes
constancy, affection and sweet temper. If it be very heavy rain,
accompanied by thunder and lightning, then expect to be assailed by
thieves. =Rats.=--To dream of seeing rats is a sign of having many
enemies. If you are attacked by rats, and get the better, it betokens you
will overcome your difficulties. If they should tear you, and make you run
away, then expect some heavy misfortune. =Riding.=--To dream you are
riding, if it be with a woman, is very fortunate. If you are in trade,
business will decay. =Ring.=--To dream of a ring is favorable, if it be on
your finger. If you are in love, expect to be speedily united to the
person on whom you have placed your affections. To dream your ring falls
off your finger, betokens evil, also the death of some near friend. To a
woman with child, it shows that the child with which she is pregnant will
encounter many difficulties, and be far from being happy. To a maiden, it
is a warning to beware of her present lover. =Roses.=--To the married,
foretell the loss of their children. To the lover, infidelity in the
sweetheart. =Reading.=--To dream you are reading an agreeable book, shows
you will be successful in love, and that you will become rich. In trade,
it is propitious. =Ribs.=--If one dreams he hath his upper ribs broken or
sunk, he will have some dissensions with his wife. If he dreams his lower
ribs are broken, he will be afflicted by his female relations and kindred.
If one dreams his limbs are grown longer and stronger than ordinary, he
will take delight in his wife. =Rice.=--To dream of eating rice, denotes
abundance of instruction. =Rasp.=--Dreaming that you see a rasp, is
unfortunate to the married. To a virgin, it is a caution for her to beware
of her lover. To the lover, it denotes that he will travel by sea.
=Rub.=--To dream that you are rubbing anything, denotes to the lover that
he will marry a very industrious girl, and be successful in business.
=Rusk.=--To dream that you are baking them, is good; but to dream that you
see others bake them, is bad. =Racing.=--To dream you are running a race,
is a token of good; presages much success in life, and that you will
speedily hear some joyful news. In love, it denotes that you will conquer
all your rivals, and be happy in the union with the object of your
affections. To dream you are riding a race, shows disappointment and
anger, bad success in trade and in love. To a married woman, it denotes
the loss of her husband’s affections, and that her children will be in
trouble. =Rouse.=--To dream you rouse a person from sleep, is good.
=Rainbow.=--To dream you see a rainbow, denotes great traveling and change
of fortune; it also foretells sudden news of a very agreeable nature; it
announces that your sweetheart is of good temper and very constant, and
that you will be very happy in marriage; great success in business,
through the means of trading with foreign ports. =Raspberries.=--To dream
of raspberries, foretells you of success in marriage, fidelity in your
sweetheart, and some news from beyond the sea to your advantage.
=Ravens.=--To dream you see a raven, is a very unfavorable omen. It
denotes mischief and adversity. In love, it shows falsehood; to the
married, they forebode much mischief, through the adultery of your
conjugal partner. To the sailor, they betoken shipwreck and much distress
on a foreign shore. =River.=--To dream you see a flowing river, and that
the waters are smooth and clear, presages happiness and success in life.
If the water appears disturbed and muddy, or has a yellow tinge, then it
denotes that you will acquire considerable riches. =Rhinoceros.=--To dream
of this East India animal, denotes success to the man of business, but
disappointment in love matters. But to dream they injure you, is
unfavorable to the dreamer. If you dream you see one dead, you will soon
lose a relative. =Rhubarb.=--If a person dreams that he handles good
rhubarb, he will be taken into favor with those he was not on good terms
with before; but to dream of the dried Turkey rhubarb, denotes sickness.
=Rabbits.=--To dream that you are among rabbits, denotes that, if you are
a married person, you will have a numerous family of healthy children. For
a single person to dream of being among rabbits, indicates a speedy
marriage. To dream you are shooting rabbits, foretells sorrow and distress
to the dreamer. =Ragged.=--To dream you are in a ragged dress, and that
you are suffering from privations, indicates that you will shortly be
raised to a higher position in society. =Rowing.=--To dream that you are
rowing in a boat, signifies that you will be successful in love and
business. =Run.=--For a man to dream that he would run, and yet cannot
lift up his feet, shows he hath an earnest desire to accomplish somewhat,
which he will find very difficult. When a sick person dreams he runs, it
is a good sign.

=Scorpions.=--To dream you see scorpions, signifies ill luck and
misfortunes. =Saviour.=--To dream that you behold the Saviour of mankind
suffering on the cross, denotes that you will be annoyed by some vile
aspersions on your character, but will eventually vindicate yourself
successfully, and be honored and respected by all whose opinion you value.
=Scandal.=--To dream that you are scandalized by one from whom you
expected different treatment, is an indication that you will be the
recipient of a legacy from a distant relative from whom you did not expect
anything of the kind. =Scared.=--To dream that you are scared by some
frightful spectacle, denotes that you will be shortly overjoyed by hearing
some pleasing intelligence from one whom you dearly love.
=Separation.=--To dream of being separated from one whom you highly esteem
and value, betokens much enjoyment to the dreamer from an unexpected
source. =Sickness.=--To dream one is sick, signifies idleness and want of
work. To dream one comforts the sick, and prescribes them medicine,
denotes profit and felicity. =Sparrows.=--To dream you see sparrows
jumping about your door step, is a sign of good fortune attending any
project you may set your mind on accomplishing. =Spirit.=--To dream that
you see a spirit before you of a comely aspect, and attired in white,
denotes joy and consolation; but if it be deformed and black, it signifies
deceit and temptation to sin. =Seat.=--To dream that one has fallen from
his seat, and would fain get into it again signifies that whatever office
or employment he is in, he shall be displaced from it, and not be able to
recover it again. =Serpent.=--To dream you see a serpent turning and
winding himself, signifies danger and imprisonment. It denotes also
sickness and hatred. To dream you kill a serpent, is a sign that you will
overcome your enemies. To dream of beating serpents is very good, and if a
serpent approaching near to do you harm, but does it not, it is a sign
that some ill woman shall be disappointed in her designs. =Strange
Place.=--To dream of being in a strange place, denotes a good legacy from
a relation while in prison. To the lover, they show inconstancy and want
of affection in the object of your love. To the sailor, sickness on the
next voyage. =Starching.=--To dream you are starching linen, shows you
will be married to an industrious person, and you will be successful in
life and save money. It also shows that you are about to receive a letter
containing some pleasant news. =Squirrel.=--To dream of a squirrel, shows
that enemies are endeavoring to slander your reputation. To the lover, it
shows your sweetheart is of a bad temper, and much given to drinking. If
you have a lawsuit, it will surely be decided against you. If you are in
trade, sharpers will endeavor to defraud you, and you will quarrel with
your principal creditor. =Sleep.=--To dream you sleep or slumber, is evil
to all, except to those who are in doubt or expectation of some danger,
for this delivers them from pain and care. To dream you sleep in a
churchyard, is death to the sick and hindrance to others. =Sold.=--To
dream of being sold, or set up for sale, is fair to those who wish to
change their condition and to those who are in poverty and servitude. But
to the rich, and the sick, and those who are placed in honor and
authority, it is ill. =Soldiers.=--To see soldiers in your dream, shows
troubles, persecution and lawsuits. To the lover, they denote that the
object of your affections will be obliged to quit the present place of
residence by command of a father, on your account. To the tradesman, they
presage loss of goods and quarrels with creditors. To dream they are
pursuing you, shows that you will be imprisoned and meet with heavy
losses, and be much disliked by your rich neighbors; this is one of those
dreams after which the dreamer is advised to change quarters.
=Spinning.=--To dream of spinning is good, and shows a person to be
diligent and industrious. =Son.=--To dream that a man talks with his son,
signifies some damage that will suddenly accrue to him. =Statues.=--To
dream of seeing brazen statues moving, signifies riches. But to dream you
see great statues moving, like monsters, denotes terror and perils.
=Stings.=--To dream of stings, signifies grief and care. To many, they
have signified love and injuries by wicked persons. =Shipwreck.=--To dream
you suffer shipwreck, the ship being overwhelmed, is dangerous to all,
except to those detained by force. To them it signifies liberty. =Single
Combat.=--To dream of a single combat, signifies lawsuits and marriages.
=Scratched.=--To dream of being scratched, betokens to him that is in
debt, that he shall acquit himself. To others it foretells hurt.
=Sisters.=--To dream you see your deceased brothers and sisters, signifies
long life. =Shaving.=--To dream you are being shaved, or that your head
has been shaved, is a very unfavorable omen; in love, it denotes treachery
and disappointment; and in the married state, infidelity and discord. To
the tradesman, it denotes loss of goods and business; to the sailor, an
unpleasant and stormy voyage; to the farmer, it prefigures bad crops and
diseases amongst his live stock. =Sheep.=--To dream you see a flock of
sheep feeding, is a very favorable omen; it denotes success. To dream you
see them dispersing, and running away from you, shows that pretended
friends are endeavoring to do you an injury, and that your children will
meet with persecution and great troubles. In love, such a dream shows your
sweetheart to be fickle and little calculated to make you happy. To dream
you see sheep shearing, is indicative of loss of property and the
affections of the person you love; also of your liberty. To dream you are
shearing them yourself, shows that you will gain an advantage over some
person who meant to harm you, and that you will get the better of
difficulties and marry the object of your affection. =Supreme.=--To dream
you have supreme command over any place, is unfortunate, particularly if
the person is sick and helpless. =Surprise.=--To dream that you surprise
any one, denotes good luck to the dreamer and great success in trade.
=Sycamore.=--To dream you see this tree, denotes jealousy to the married;
and to the virgin, she shall shortly be married. =Strawberries.=--To dream
of strawberries, denotes to a woman with child a good time and a boy. To a
maiden, speedy marriage with a man who will become rich and make her
happy. To a youth, they denote that his wife will be sweet tempered, and
bring him many children, all boys. They foretell riches to the tradesman
and to the sailor. They are a very fortunate dream to the farmer.
=Sun.=--To dream you see the sun shine, shows acquisition of riches, and
enjoyment of honorable posts in the state; also success to the lover. To
dream you see the sun rise, promises fidelity in your sweetheart and good
news from friends. To dream you see the sun set, shows infidelity in your
sweetheart, and disgraceful news. To the tradesman, loss of business. To
dream you see the sun under a cloud, foretells many hardships and troubles
about to befall you, and that you will encounter some great danger.
=Swallows.=--To dream of these harbingers of summer is a very favorable
omen. They denote success in trade and riches to the dreamer. In love,
they denote a speedy marriage with the object of your affections.
=Swimming.=--To dream you are swimming, with your head above the water,
denotes great success in your undertakings, whether they be in love,
trade, sea or farming. To dream you are swimming with your head under
water, shows that you will experience some great trouble and hear some
very unpleasant news from a person you thought dead. In trade, it shows
loss of business. =Shooting.=--To dream you are out shooting, is very
favorable, if you kill much game. To the lover, it shows a mistress kind
and good humored, who will make him an excellent and notable wife. To the
tradesman and farmer, success and riches. To the sailor, wealth acquired
in a distant country. But if you dream you kill little or no game, then it
presages bad luck, and disappointment in love. To dream you are shooting
with a bow and arrow, is a very favorable dream, particularly to the lover
and tradesman. =Silk.=--To dream you see silk, either in pieces or for
sewing, signifies prosperity and success in undertakings. To dream you are
clothed in silk, foretells that you will do honors in the state, and
become rich, but that you will quarrel with a rich neighbor, who will
endeavor to do you mischief. For a married woman to dream of being dressed
in a silk gown, shows her husband is fond of a harlot, who will go near to
ruin him. If a maiden dreams of it, she will speedily see her lover.
=Snakes.=--To dream you see snakes and serpents, shows that you will be
imprisoned, and encounter many dangers. If you are in love, your
sweetheart will be false; to dream you kill a snake, shows you will
overcome difficulties and enemies and be successful in love, trade or
farming, but unsuccessful at sea. =Swoon.=--To dream you see a person
swoon is unfortunate to the maid. To the married, it is a sign they will
become rich and prosperous. To those who are nervous it is bad.
=Scabs.=--To dream you are covered with scabs, is the sure forerunner of
great success and riches. =School.=--To dream you begin again to go to
school, and yet cannot say your lessons right, shows you are about to
undertake something you do not understand. =Sea.=--To dream of walking
upon the sea, is good to him that would travel; as also to a servant, and
to him that would take a wife, or who hath a lawsuit. To a young man, this
dream is love of a beautiful young woman. To a woman, it signifies she
leads a desolate life; for the sea is like a harlot, because it hath a
fair appearance and show, but in the end brings many to evil. To dream you
walk in the sea, or on the shore, or catch fish, is a bad dream.
=Ship.=--To dream of seeing ships freighted with goods, denotes
prosperity. If you dream of seeing ships endangered by a tempest, it
signifies fear. =Shoes.=--To dream of losing one’s shoes and walking
barefooted, signifies pain in the feet and sickness. It also denotes loss
of reproaches to those of a sanguine complexion, and more especially if
this dream comes to you in the first days of the moon. =Silver.=--If one
dreams he gathers up silver, it signifies deceit and loss; to see silver
eaten, denotes great advantage; to eat silver, signifies wrath and anger.
=Spectre.=--Few dreams are more certain of good luck to the dreamer, than
to dream of spectres. It prognosticates business to the merchant, work for
the artist and mechanic, and marriage to the maiden. =Sepulchre.=--To
dream of a sepulchre is a sign of great good to the dreamer.
=Singing.=--If any one dreams he sings, it signifies he will be affected
and weep. To dream you hear singing or playing upon instruments, signifies
consolation in adversity, recovery of health to those that are sick. To
dream you hear birds sing, signifies love, joy and delight.
=Small-pox.=--To dream one is full of the small-pox, denotes profit and
wealth without infamy. =Snow.=--To dream you see the ground covered with
snow is a good omen. =Stars.=--To dream you see stars clear and fair, is
good for a traveler, for it shows prosperity and advantage to a voyage or
journey, also good news; but, on the contrary, to see them dusky and
pale-colored, signifies all sorts of mischief. Seeing the stars vanish and
disappear, signifies poverty, vexation and disturbing cares to those that
are rich, and death to those that are poor. =Splendor.=--To dream that you
are surrounded with great splendor, and living luxuriously, is an
indication that you will soon be laid on a bed of affliction and perhaps
death. =Stealing.=--To dream that you are accused of stealing something,
is an indication that you will have a handsome present given you.
=Storm.=--To dream that you are exposed to a violent storm, denotes that a
reconciliation is about to take place between you and one with whom you
have been at variance. =Stockings.=--For a female to dream that she is
darning stockings, denotes that she will be gladdened by hearing of
something to her advantage. For a person to dream of having lost his or
her stockings, is an indication that trouble and distress will assail the
dreamer. =Success.=--To dream that you have been successful in some
enterprise in which you have been engaged, denotes that you will hear of
some person’s death whom you highly esteemed. =Swan.=--To see a swan in
your dream, signifies joy, revealing of secrets and health to the dreamer;
but if it sings, it foretells death. =Sweethearts.=--If a man dreams of
his sweetheart that is absent, and she seems to be more fair than usual,
it is a sign she is chaste or constant; but if she looks black or sickly,
you may be assured she hath broken her faith and has become altogether
inconstant. =Swine.=--In dreams, swine denote lazy persons, who think of
nothing but how to prey on other people’s goods; they signify also
covetous persons. To dream you trade in swine, signifies sickness. To
dream you see a sow with a litter of pigs, denotes distress.

=Talking.=--To dream that you are talking loudly of some matter or person
with whom you are not on the most friendly terms, signifies that troubles
are about to visit you. To dream that some person is talking about you, is
an indication that you will be gladdened by having a proposal made to you
that will be to your interest to agree to. =Tandem.=--To dream that you
are driving tandem, denotes that you will be prosperous in business and in
the marriage state. =Tears.=--To dream that you are shedding tears from
some heavy trouble, denotes that you will be speedily removed to a
situation in which you will enjoy much happiness. =Tradesmen.=--To dream
you see those you employ at work, signifies that they are honest in their
dealings with you. To dream you work yourself, betokens a happy contented
life. =Thorns.=--To dream you walk upon thorns, signifies destruction to
your enemies. =Throat.=--If any one dreams his throat is cut, he will be
injured by some person or other. If he dreams he cuts the throat of
another, he will do himself some great injury. =Torch.=--To dream of
holding a burning torch in the hand, is a good sign to those that are
young, for it signifies they shall enjoy their loves, accomplish their
designs, overcome their enemies, and gain honor and good from all persons.
To dream you see a torch extinguished or darkened, signifies sadness,
sickness and poverty. =Torture.=--To dream that you are undergoing some
torture from false accusation, denotes that you will be blessed with much
happiness and contentment in your future life. =Telescope.=--For a person
to dream of looking through a telescope at some distant object, is an
indication that the dreamer will shortly receive a letter from a friend
in a far-distant country. =Thirst.=--If any one dreams his thirst is
quenched, and that he has drank his fill of water, if the water appeared
clear and acceptable to him, he will live joyfully and become very
wealthy; if the water be troubled, lukewarm, stinking or dirty, he will
end his days in affliction. =Tamarinds.=--To dream of tamarinds denotes
vexation and uneasiness through a woman, bad success in trade, a rainy
season and news from beyond the sea that is disagreeable. In love, it
denotes disappointment. =Teeth.=--To dream you lose a tooth, denotes the
loss of some friend by death, and that troubles and misfortunes are about
to attend you. To dream you cut new teeth, denotes the birth of a child,
who will make a great figure in the world. =Thunder.=--To dream of
thunder, signifies affliction to the rich, but to the poor repose.
=Traveling.=--If one dreams that he is traveling through a wood and that
he sticketh in the briars and bushes, it betokens many troubles and
hindrances. To travel over high hills and mountains and rocky places,
signifies advancement, but with much difficulty obtained. =Trees.=--To
dream that you fell trees, signifies loss; to dream you are climbing them,
signifies future honor. To see withered trees, deceit; to see trees bear
fruit, gain. =Tempests.=--To dream you are in a storm or tempest, shows
that you will after many difficulties arrive at great happiness; that you
will become rich and marry well. For a lover to dream of being in a
tempest, denotes that he will have rivals, over whom, after a great deal
of vexation, he will triumph. It also foretells that you will receive some
good news from a long absent friend, who will overcome many difficulties.
=Thunder and Lightning.=--To dream you hear thunder and see lightning is a
very good dream. It denotes success in trade, good crops to the farmer and
a speedy and happy marriage to the lover. If you are soliciting a place,
you will obtain it; if you have a lawsuit, you will gain it. It also
indicates speedy news from a far distant country. =Toads.=--To dream you
see these venomous reptiles, argues ill to the dreamer. It shows enemies
and disappointment among friends. To the lover, it denotes infidelity in
your sweetheart. In trade, loss by swindlers and spoiling of goods. To
dream you kill a toad, denotes that you will overcome an enemy and
discover a person who is robbing you and in whom you place great
confidence. =Tombs.=--To dream of being amongst the tombs denotes a speedy
marriage, great success in business and the gaining of a lawsuit, also the
birth of children and unexpected news. =Trumpet.=--To dream you hear the
sound of a trumpet is a bad omen, and denotes troubles and misfortunes. To
the tradesman, it presages loss of business; to the farmer, bad crops; to
the lover, insincerity in the object of his affections. =Tarts.=--To dream
one makes tarts, signifies joy and delight. =Treasure.=--To dream you find
a treasure in the earth, is very ominous. It shows that you will be
betrayed by some one whom you make your bosom friend; that your sweetheart
is unfaithful and grossly deceives you; and should you not be able to
carry it away, then it denotes that you will have some very heavy loss,
and that you will be waylaid by robbers, who will ill-treat you.
=Turnips.=--To dream of being in a turnip field, or that you see this
wholesome vegetable, denotes acquisition of riches, and high employments
in the state. To the lover, they augur great fidelity and an exceedingly
good temper in your sweetheart, and that if you marry you will be very
happy, have fine children and thrive in the world. =Turkey.=--To dream you
see a turkey strutting about, is a sign you will overcome your enemies. To
dream you see or are amongst a drove of turkeys, betokens success in your
undertakings about this time. To dream of dead turkeys denotes that you
will encounter trouble that you will soon surmount. =Tumbler.=--To dream
you break a tumbler, is prognostic of secrets being discovered that have
long remained a mystery. To drink from a clear tumbler, denotes health and
activity; to drink from a dirty one, the reverse. =Tops.=--To dream you
are spinning tops is ill. =Teapots.=--If a person dream of teapots they
will soon form new friendships.

=Urn.=--To dream of this vessel has a happy signification, for it
foretells the marriage either of yourself, a near relative or a dear
companion. =Ugly.=--For a person to dream of being ugly or deformed,
indicates that the dreamer will be surprised by hearing from a long absent
friend a communication of a pleasing and gratifying nature.
=Undertaker.=--For a single person to dream of seeing an undertaker enter
the house, and attend to the mournful obsequies of a funeral, denotes that
the dreamer will be married in a short time. For a married person to dream
of seeing an undertaker attending to his duties, is an indication that his
family will be increased in a short time.

=Vermin.=--To dream that you are surrounded and attacked by vermin, some
creeping over your body, and others assailing you in various parts of your
frame, signifies that you will be gladdened and rejoiced to learn that you
have become entitled to the possession of considerable property through
the death of a relative. =Villainy.=--To dream that you are exposed to
some villainy by one from whom you expected different conduct, denotes
that you will be astonished to learn that you have had a fortune left to
you by one who was no relation. =Virgin.=--A virgin dreaming that she has
lost her virginity, signifies great danger. =Vow.=--To dream that you have
made a vow and broken it, is bad to all. =Velvet.=--To dream you trade
with a stranger in velvet and other silks, is a sign of profit and joy.
=Vote.=--To dream you are voting is bad, particularly to sick persons. For
a newly-married woman to dream of voting, is a sure sign her first child
will be a boy, who will come to great honors. =Vulture.=--To dream of the
vulture is unfortunate to all except sick persons, to whom it foretells a
speedy recovery. =Victuals.=--To dream of victuals and that you eat a
variety of them, signifies loss. =Vines.=--To dream of vines denotes
health and wealth to the dreamer. To dream you are a vine, foretells
abundance and fertility; for which we have the example of Astyages, King
of the Medes, who dreamed that his daughter brought forth a vine, which
was a prognostic of the grandeur, riches and felicity of Cyrus, who was
born of her body after this dream. =Vinegar.=--To dream you drink vinegar,
signifies sickness. =Violin.=--To dream one plays or sees another play
upon the violin or other musical instrument, signifies good news and
concord between man and wife, master and apprentice, brother and sister,
&c. =Vomit.=--To dream of vomiting, whether of blood, meat or phlegm,
signifies to the poor, profit, to the rich, hurt. =Venison.=--To dream
about venison, denotes change in affairs. To dream you eat of it,
signifies misfortune. =Volcano.=--To dream about volcanos forbodes liberty
to a person in prison, and peace and happiness to those out of it.

=Walking.=--To dream one is walking in the dirt, or among thorns,
signifies sickness. To dream one is walking in the water, or some torrent,
signifies adversity and grief. =War.=--To dream of war and affairs of war,
signifies trouble and danger. =Washing.=--For a man to dream he washes or
bathes himself in baths or hot-houses, signifies riches, prosperity and
health to the sick. But to dream he washes or bathes himself contrary to
the common custom, or in his clothes, is evil and betokeneth sickness and
great danger. To dream that you were in fountains, ponds or current water,
and in fair and clear floods, is good, but not that you swim, for that is
a sign of danger and sickness. Washing is a sure sign of removal.
=Wedding.=--For a man that is sick to dream that he is wedded to a maid,
shows he shall die quickly. If any one dream he is wedded to a deformed
woman, it signifies discontent. If to a handsome woman, joy. =Wife.=--If a
man dreams he sees his wife married to another, it denotes change of
affairs or condition. If a woman dreams she is married to another man, it
is the same. =Want.=--For a person to dream that he or she comes to sudden
want in temporal things, denotes that an unexpected good fortune awaits
them by the death of a wealthy relative or the success of some speculation
or business bargain. =Water.=--To dream you are drinking water, denotes
great trouble and adversity. In trade loss of business and being arrested;
to the lover, it shows your sweetheart is false, prefers another, and will
never marry you. =Watermill.=--To dream of being in a water-mill is a
favorable omen. To the tradesman it denotes great increase of business; to
the farmer, abundant crops; in love, success, a rich sweetheart and a
happy marriage. =Wasps.=--To dream that you are stung by wasps, signifies
vexation and trouble by envious persons. =Weasel.=--To dream of weasels,
shows a man in love with some ill-natured woman, by whom he will be
ensnared, or some domestic who will cajole his master by subtlety.
=Whales.=--If you dream you are sitting on a whale’s back, it is good. As
the whale is the greatest of the water animals, so the one so dreaming
will become a great person and live in peace many years. =Wild Boar.=--The
wild boar, in dreams, signifies a furious enemy, well furnished with all
things necessary. And thus, if any one dreams he has hunted or taken a
wild boar, he will chase or take some enemy that hath the same qualities
as the wild boar. =Wrist.=--To dream that your wrists are broken, is very
good. It foretells that you will marry your present lover and be very
happy. =Walls.=--To dream you are walking on a crazy, old and narrow wall,
denotes that you will engage in some very dangerous enterprise that will
cause you much trouble and vexation. If you get down without hurting
yourself, or the wall’s falling, then you will succeed. If the wall should
fall whilst you are upon it, you will be disappointed. If you are walking
between walls and the passage is very narrow and difficult, you will be
engaged in some quarrel, or disagreeable affair, from which it will
require great circumspection and caution on your part to disengage
yourself. But if you get from between them safe, you will settle well in
life, marry an agreeable partner, have children and become rich and happy.
=Weeping.=--To dream one weeps or grieves, whether it be for a friend
departed or any other cause, is joy and mirth. =Wheat.=--To dream you see
or are walking in a field of wheat, is a very favorable omen, and denotes
great prosperity and riches. In love, it argues a completion of your most
sanguine wishes and foretells much happiness, with fine children, when you
marry. If you have a lawsuit, you will gain it and you will be successful
in all your undertakings. =Wood.=--To dream you are cutting or chopping
wood, clearly shows that you will be happy in your family, and become rich
and respectable in life. To dream you are carrying wood upon your back,
shows that you will rise to affluence by your industry, but that your
partner will be of a bad temper and your children undutiful. If you dream
you are walking or sitting alone in an extensive wood by a running stream,
it denotes that you will quickly fall in love, and also that you will be
often married. To dream that you are walking or sitting there with a
worthy object of your affections, betokens your speedy union, which will
prove so felicitous that you will be called “the happy couple.”
=Wool.=--To dream you are buying or selling wool, denotes prosperity and
great affluence, by means or industry and trade. To the lover, it is a
favorable omen. Your sweetheart is thereby shown to be of an amiable
disposition, very constant and deeply in love with you. =Will.=--Dreaming
of making your will signifies that you will live a long time in
uninterrupted happiness and joy. For a woman with child to dream that she
has made her will, is unfortunate, as it denotes an unfortunate trial of
labor. =Wren.=--To dream of this little bird is good, as the wren is noted
for its innocence; the person so dreaming is certain of having a noble
friend. But to dream you kill it, is bad. =Walnuts.=--To dream of walnuts,
portends difficulties and misfortunes in life. If you have children, your
eldest son will marry a woman who will make him very unhappy. In love, it
foretells infidelity and disappointment. To the seaman, storms and
shipwreck. To the tradesman, loss of goods and reputation through a
confidential servant. =Well.=--If a young man dreams that he draws water
out of a well, it signifies a speedy marriage to a fair maid, who will
bring him a portion. If the water be troubled, he will be disturbed by
her, and suddenly fall sick. If he seems to give to others clear well
water to drink, it denotes that he will enrich them. But if the water be
troubled, he will afflict them. If he dreams that he sees a person fall
into a well, it signifies that the person dreamed of shall die quickly.
=Wounds.=--To dream you are wounded, is a very favorable omen, especially
if it be with a sword. To the lover, it denotes success in your amours,
and with an agreeable partner, who will be faithful and affectionate. To
the tradesman, profit; and to the farmer, increase in his cattle and
plentiful crops. To the sailor, a profitable voyage, with success in love.
=Wager.=--To dream you have laid a wager on some matter in dispute, or on
some event that has to come off, denotes that you are in danger of being
subjected to a serious accident, and that through the interposition and
courage of a friend you are permitted to escape with only a slight injury.
=Wages.=--For a workingman to dream that he has had his wages reduced,
signifies that he is about to be removed to a more lucrative situation. To
dream that he has had his wages advanced, denotes that he will shortly be
without employment. =Waves.=--To dream that you are on the sea-shore, and
surrounded by the waves, is an indication that you will be shortly placed
in very difficult and distressing circumstances, out of which it will
require all your energy and perseverance to escape. =Waltzing.=--To dream
you are waltzing with some agreeable partner, is an indication that you
will be subjected to some unpleasant treatment from one from whom you
expected nothing but kindness. =Widow.=--For a newly married woman to
dream that she is a widow, signifies that she will be blessed with comfort
and happiness in domestic life and be the mother of dutiful and obedient
children. =Wig.=--For one who has no lack of hair to dream that he wears a
wig, signifies that he will be compelled to stand before a judge in a
court of law, either as a criminal or as a witness. =Witchcraft.=--For a
person to dream that he has been to visit a supposed fortune-teller,
denotes that misfortune shall befall him, unpleasantness in his family,
treachery in his place of business and deception in those he supposed his
best friends. =Worms.=--To dream that you see a great number of worms in
your path, is an indication that the death of either yourself or of some
one dear to you may shortly be expected. For a young woman to dream that
she has trod upon a worm that was crawling in her path, signifies that the
engagement between her and her lover will be in danger of being broken off
through the machinations of a jealous rival, but eventually a
reconciliation will be accomplished. =Wreath.=--For a young woman to dream
that her head is adorned with the bridal wreath, is an indication that
death will shortly visit either herself or some one dear to her.
=Wreck.=--To dream that you are witnessing the wreck of some vessel at a
short distance from the sea-shore, is an indication that one in whom you
reposed great confidence will deceive you. =Writing.=--

    Dreaming of writing ever means nerve;
    ’Twill grant or deny, will give or refuse.

=Yew Tree.=--To dream of a yew tree, is an indication of the funeral of a
very aged person, by whose death the dreamer will derive some benefit or
protecting hand among the relations of the deceased person. =Yeast.=--If a
young housewife dreams that she is kneading bread with yeast, she may
conclude that she will be the mother of a large family of children.

=Zodiac.=--To dream of the twelve signs of the zodiac, shows to a man that
he will be a great traveler, and sail once around the world. To a woman,
that she will wed a foreigner who is deeply skilled in astronomy.




PHYSIOGNOMY.


The principles of philosophy demonstrate that the human features are a
reflex of the mental and physical workings of the system, as it is from
time to time operated upon by surrounding circumstances, and they
therefore act an important part in depicting the lights and shades of
temperament and disposition. So, also, the color and nature of the hair
are indicative of character. In the pages immediately following will be
found fully presented prognostics to be drawn from the latter, as also
from the forehead, eyebrows, eyes, nose, mouth, chin, and the whole
assemblage of features.

The gentleman whose hair is very black and smooth, hanging far over his
shoulders, and in large quantity, is mild, but resolute; cool until
greatly provoked; not much inclined to excesses; constant in his
attachments; not liable to many misfortunes.

A lady with the same kind of hair is moderate in her desires of every
kind; addicted to reflection; not violent in love, but steady in her
attachments.

If the hair is very black, short and curling, the gentleman will be very
much given to liquor; somewhat quarrelsome and of unsettled temper;
desirous of riches, but will often be disappointed in his wishes therein.

A gentleman with dark brown, long and smooth hair, is generally of a
robust constitution; obstinate in his temper, eager in his pursuits, a
lover of the fair sex, fond of variety in his ordinary pursuits,
exceedingly curious, and of a flexible disposition. He will live long,
unless guilty of early intemperance.

A lady with the same kind of hair will be nearly the same as the
gentleman, but more steady in her conduct and attachments, especially in
love. She will be of a good constitution, have many children, enjoy good
health and a reasonable share of happiness.

If the hair is short and bushy it will make very little alteration in the
gentleman or lady, but that the gentleman will be more forward to strike
when provoked and the lady will be more of a scold.

A gentleman with light brown, long, smooth hair, is of a peaceable, even,
and rather generous temper; will prevent mischief if in his power, but
when very much provoked will strike furiously; but is afterwards sorry for
his passion and soon appeased; strongly attached to the company of ladies
and will protect them from insult. Upon the whole, he is in general of an
amiable character, affable and kind.

A lady with the same kind of hair is tender-hearted, but hasty in temper;
neither obstinate nor haughty; her inclination to love never unreasonable;
her constitution will be good, but she will be seldom very fortunate.

A gentleman with fair hair will be of a weak constitution; his mind given
much to reflection, especially on religious matters. He will be assiduous
in his occupation, but not given to rambling; very moderate in his amorous
wishes; but he will not live to an old age.

A lady with this colored hair is on the contrary of a good constitution;
never to be diverted from her purpose; passionate in love affairs, never
easy unless in company, and delights in hearing herself praised,
especially for beauty; delights in dancing and strong exercises and
commonly lives to a great age.

A gentleman with long red hair is cunning, artful and deceitful; he is
much addicted to traffic of some kind, restless in his disposition,
constantly roving and desirous of enjoying the pleasures of love. He is
covetous of getting money and spends it foolishly; he is indefatigable and
no obstacle will induce him to forsake his enterprise until he has seen
the issue of it. He is inclined to timidity, but by reflection may correct
it and pass for a man of courage.

A lady with the same kind of hair, is glib of tongue, talkative and vain;
her temper is impatient and fiery and will not submit to contradiction;
she has a constant flow of spirits and is much given to the pleasures of
love. However delicate her person may seem, her constitution is generally
vigorous; but she seldom lives to see old age, for obvious reasons. Her
promises are seldom to be depended upon, because the next object that
engrosses her attention makes her forgetful of everything that preceded
it, and she will always resent any disappointment she may meet with.

If the hair falls off at the fore part of the head, the person will be
easily led, though otherwise rational, and will often be duped when he
thinks he is acting right; he will likewise frequently meet with
disappointments in money matters, which will either hurt his credit, or
force him to shorten his expenses.

If the hair falls off behind, he will be obstinate, peevish, passionate
and fond of commanding others, though he has no right, and will grow angry
if his advice is not followed. However preposterous, he will be fond of
hearing and telling old stories and tales of ghosts and fairies, but will
be a good domestic man and provide for his family to the utmost of his
power.

If the hair forms an arch around the forehead, without being much
indented at the temples, both the lady and the gentleman will be innocent,
credulous, moderate in all their desires, and though not ardent in their
pursuits, will still be persevering. They will be modest, good-natured,
prosperous and happy.

If the hair is indented at the temples, the person will be affable,
steady, good-natured, prudent and attentive to business, of a good
constitution and long-lived.

If the hair descends low upon the forehead, the person will be selfish and
designing; of a surly disposition, unsociable and given to drinking. He
will be addicted to avarice and his mind will be always intent upon the
means of carrying on his schemes.

The forehead that is large, round and smooth, announces the lady or
gentleman to be frank, open, generous and free, good-natured and a safe
companion; of a good understanding and scorns to be guilty of any mean
action; faithful to his promises, just in his dealings, steadfast in his
engagements and sincere in his affections; he will enjoy a moderate state
of health.

If the forehead is flat in the middle, the gentleman or lady will be found
to be vainglorious and but little disposed to generosity; very tenacious
of his honor, but brave; he will be fond of prying into the secrets of
others, though not with the intention of betraying them; he will be fond
of reading newspapers, history, novels, and plays; ardent, and very
cautious of his own reputation.

If there be a hollow across the forehead, in the middle, with a ridge as
of flesh, above, and another below, the gentleman will be a good scholar,
and the lady a great manufacturer, or attentive to whatever occupation she
may be engaged in. They will be warm in argument or debate; they will be
firm and steady in any point they fix their minds upon and by their
perseverance will generally carry their object; yet they will meet with
many crosses, but will bear them with patience.

If the forehead juts out immediately at and over the eyebrows, running
flat up to the hair, the gentleman or lady will be sullen, proud,
insolent, imperious and treacherous; they will be impatient when
contradicted, apt to give great abuse, and to strike if they think they
can do it with advantage. They will also impose upon any person, never
forgive any injury and by their misconduct make themselves many enemies.

If the temples are hollow, with the bones advancing towards the forehead
on either side, so that the space between must be necessarily flat, with a
small channel or indentation rising from the upper part of the nose to the
hair, the gentleman or lady will be of a daring and intrepid temper,
introducing themselves into matters where they have no business, desirous
of passing for wits, and of a subtle and enterprising nature; greedy of
praise, quick in quarrel, and of a wandering disposition; very lewd, and
full of resentment when they feel their pride hurt. In short, they delight
in mischief, riots, &c.

If the eyebrows are very hairy, and that hair long and curled, with
several of the hairs starting out, the gentleman or lady is of a gloomy
disposition, litigious and quarrelsome, although a coward; greedy after
the affairs of this world, perpetually brooding over some melancholy
subject and not an agreeable companion. He will be diffident, penurious,
and weak in his understanding; never addicted to any kind of learning. He
will pretend much friendship, but will make his affected passion
subservient to his pecuniary designs, and given to drinking, &c.

If a gentleman or lady has long eyebrows, with some long hairs, they will
be of a fickle disposition, weak-minded, credulous and vain, always
seeking after novelties and neglecting their own business; they will be
talkative, pert, and disagreeable in company; very fond of contradiction,
and will not bear disappointment patiently; and also much addicted to
drinking, &c.

If the eyebrows are thick and even, that is, without any or few starting
hairs, the lady or gentleman will be of an agreeable temper, sound
understanding and tolerable wit; moderately addicted to pleasure, fearful
of giving offence, but intrepid and persevering in support of right;
charitable and generous, sincere in their professions of love and
friendship and enjoy a good constitution.

If the eyebrow is small, thin of hair, and even, the lady or gentleman
will be weak-minded, timorous, superficial and not to be depended on; they
will be desirous of knowledge, but will not have patience and assiduity to
give it the necessary attention; they will be desirous of praise for
worthy actions, but will not have the spirit or perseverance to perform
them in that degree of excellence that is requisite to attract the notice
of wise men. They will be of a delicate constitution.

If the eyebrow is thick of hair towards the nose and goes off suddenly
very thin, ending in a point, the lady or gentleman will be surly,
capricious, jealous, fretful and easily provoked to rage; in their love
they will be intemperate.

The eye that is large, full, prominent and clear, denotes a lady or
gentleman to be of an ingenious and candid disposition, void of deceit and
of an even, agreeable and affable disposition; modest and bashful in love,
though by no means an enemy to its gratification; firm, though not
obstinate; of a good understanding, of an agreeable but not brilliant wit;
but clear and just in argument; inclined to extravagance and easily
imposed upon.

The eye that is small, but advanced in the head, shows the lady or
gentleman to be of a quick wit, sound constitution, lively genius,
agreeable company and conversation, good morals, but rather inclined to
jealousy; attentive to business, fond of frequently changing his place,
punctual in fulfilling his engagements, warm in love, prosperous in his
undertakings and generally fortunate in most things.

The lady or gentleman whose eyes are sunk in the head is of a jealous,
distrustful, malicious and envious nature; deceitful in their words and
actions, never to be depended upon; cunning in overreaching others,
vainglorious and associates with lewd and bad company.

The gentleman or lady who squints, or have their eyes turned awry, will be
of a penurious disposition, but punctual in their dealings.

A black eye is lively, brisk and penetrating, and proves the person who
possesses it to be of a sprightly wit, lively conversation, not easily
imposed upon, of a sound understanding, but if taken on the weak side, may
be led astray for a while.

A hazel eye shows the person to be of a subtle, piercing and frolicsome
turn, rather inclined to be arch, and sometimes mischievous, but
good-natured at the bottom. He will be strongly inclined to love and not
over delicate in the means of gratifying that propensity.

A blue eye shows the person to be of a meek and gentle temper, affable and
good-natured, credulous and incapable of violent attachment; over-modest,
cool and undisturbed by turbulent passions, of a strong memory, in
constitution neither robust nor delicate, subject to no violent impression
from the vicissitudes of life, whether good or bad.

A gray eye denotes the person to be of weak intellect, devoid of wit, but
a plain, plodding, downright drudge, that will act as he is spirited by
others. He will be slow in learning anything that requires attention; he,
however, will be just to the best of his understanding.

A wall eye denotes the person to be of a hasty, passionate and
ungovernable temper, subject to sudden and violent anger; haughty to his
equals and superiors, but mild and affable to his inferiors.

A red, or as it is vulgarly called, a saucer eye, denotes the person to be
selfish, deceitful and proud; furious in anger, fertile in the invention
of plots and indefatigable in his resolution to bring them to bear.

A nose that comes even on the ridge, flat on the sides, with little or no
hollow between the eyes, declares the man to be sulky, insolent,
disdainful, treacherous and self-sufficient; if it has a point descending
over the nostrils, he is avaricious and unfeeling, vainglorious and
ignorant; peevish, jealous, quick in resentment, yet a coward at the
bottom.

A nose that rises with a sudden bulge a little below the eyes, and then
falls again into a kind of hollow below, is petulant and noisy, void of
science and of a very light understanding.

The nose that is small, slender and peaked, shows the person to be of a
fearful disposition, jealous, fretful and insidious, ever suspicious of
those about him, catching at every word that he can interpret to his own
advantage to ground his dispute upon and also very curious to know what is
said and done.

The nose that is small, tapering round in the nostrils and cocked up,
shows the person to be ingenious, smart, of a quick apprehension, giddy
and seldom looking into consequences; but generous, agreeable, so as to
carefully avoid giving offence; but resolute in doing himself justice when
he receives an injury.

The lips that are thick, soft and long, announce the person to be of weak
intellect, credulous and slightly peevish, but by a little soothing easily
brought back to a good humor. He is much addicted to the pleasures of
love, and scarcely moderate in his enjoyment of them; yet he is upright in
his conduct and of a timorous temper.

If the under lip is much thicker than the upper, and more prominent, the
person is of a weak understanding, but artful, knavish and given to
chicanery to the full extent of his ability.

The lips that are moderately plump and even, declare the person to be
good-humored, humane, sensible, judicious and just, neither giddy nor
torpid, but pursuing in every particular a just medium.

The lips that are thin, show the person to be of a quick and lively
imagination, ardent in the pursuit of knowledge, indefatigable in labor,
not too much attached to money, eager in the pursuit of love, more brave
than otherwise and tolerably happy in life.

The lips that are thin and sunk inwards, denote the person to be of a
subtle and persevering disposition, everlasting in hatred and never
sparing any pains to compass his revenge; in love or friendship much more
moderate and uncertain.

The chin that is round, with a hollow between it and the lip, shows the
person to be of a good-humored disposition, kind and honest; he is sincere
in his friendship and ardent in his love; his understanding is good and
his genius capacious. If he has a dimple it makes him better.

The chin that comes down flat from the edge of the lips and ends in a kind
of a chisel form, shows the person to be silly, credulous, ill-tempered
and greedy of unmerited honors; captious, wavering and unsteady; he will
affect great modesty in the presence of others, though he will not scruple
to do the vilest actions when he thinks himself secure from discovery.

The chin that is pointed upwards shows the person to be much given to
contrivances. However fair he may speak to you, you can never depend on
his friendship, as his purpose is only to make you subservient to his own
designs. In love his generosity will be of the same stamp.

Of the face in general, the person whose features are strong, coarse and
unpleasant to the eye, is of a selfish, brutal, rough and unsocial
disposition; greedy of money, harsh in expressions, but will sometimes
fawn with a bad grace to gain his ends.

The face that is plump, round and ruddy, denotes the person to be of an
agreeable temper, a safe companion, hearty, jovial, fond of company, of
sound principles and a clear understanding, faithful in love, &c.

The face that is thin, smooth and even, with well-proportioned features,
shows the person to be of a good disposition, but penetrative and active;
somewhat inclined to suspicion, yet of an agreeable conversation;
assiduous in the pursuits of love and strongly addicted to the delights of
love.

A face whose cheek bones jut out with thin jaws, is of a restless and
thinking disposition; fretful, &c.

A face that is pale by nature, denotes a timorous disposition, but greatly
desirous of carnal pleasures.

A face that is unequally red, whether streaked or appearing in spots,
shows the person to be weak both in body and mind, yielding easily to
affliction and sickness.

A face blotched shows the person to be addicted to drinking and vice,
though frequently possessing the art to conceal the inclination therefor.

The head that is large and round shows that the person has a tolerable
understanding, but not near so good as he imagines.

The head that is small and round, or if the face comes tapering, shows the
person of an acute, penetrating disposition, much given to bantering
humor, but of great sensibility.

The head that is flat on either side, and deep from the face to the back,
shows the person to be of a good understanding, deep penetration, great
memory and of an agreeable temper; of slow belief and not easily imposed
upon.

Big and broad ears signify a simple man, of no understanding; sluggish,
slothful and of an ill memory. Small ears denote a good understanding; but
very small ears signify nothing but mischief and malice. Those that have
them well proportioned, and neither too small nor too large, are persons
of good understanding, wise, discreet, honest, shamefaced and courageous.
Those that have them somewhat long and thin, are bold, impudent,
unlearned, gluttons and very proud and scornful.

A thin, soft beard denotes a person lustful and effeminate, of a tender
body, fearful, delicate and inconstant.

A red beard denotes first, a placid forehead, and the person is courteous
and friendly, but not without some craft; is a very great flatterer, very
soon angry and affects consequence.

A dark beard is good, but the possessor is usually of a melancholy
disposition; yet it denotes a person to be ingenious, sincere, thoughtful,
constant, cordial, bold and fit to make a warrior.

A pale beard denotes a phlegmatic person, who is temperate enough and
tolerably prudent.

He that hath a decent beard, handsome and thick of hair, is good-natured
and reasonable in all things.

Those who have little or no beard, but a small mustache, are of an ill
humor, but very luxurious.




CHIROMANCY, OR PALMISTRY.


[Illustration]

The practical part of chiromancy is that which gathers probable
predictions from lines, the places of the planets in the hand, and from
the notes and characters everywhere posted and marked out in the hands and
fingers. These lines and their planetary relevancy are thus defined:

     1. _Cardiaca_, or the line of life.
     2. _Hepatica_, or the love’s line; also called the natural mean.
     3. _Cephalica_, or the line of the head and brain.
     4. _Thoralis_, or the table line.
     5. _Restricta_, or the dragon’s tail.
     6. _Via Solis_, or the sun’s way.
     7. _Via Lactea_, or the milky way.
     8. _Via Saturnia_, or Saturn’s way.
     9. _Cingulum Veneris_, or the girdle of Venus.
    10. _Via Martis_, or the way of Mars.
    11. _Mons Veneris_, or the mound of Venus.
    12. _Cavea Martis_, or the cave of Mars.
    13. _Mons Jovis_, or Jupiter’s mount.
    14. _Mons Saturn_, or Saturn’s mount.
    15. _Mons Solis_, or the sun’s mount.
    16. _Locus Luna_, or the moon’s place.
    17. _Mons Mercurii_, or the mount of Mercury.
    18. _Mensa_, or the table containing the part of fortune.
    19. _Pollex_, or the thumb.
    20. _Index_, or the forefinger.
    21. _Medius_, or the middle finger.
    22. _Annularis_, or the ring finger.
    23. _Auricularis_, or the little finger.

The question often arises as to whether judgment should be given by the
right hand or the left. It is certain that in one hand the lines and other
signatures are very often more manifest, and are thus more plain to be
seen than the other, as well in the hands of gentlemen as ladies. That
hand is the proper one (in both sexes) which shows and exhibits the lines
thereof most clearly, and abounds with a series of characters and signs,
yet so as that the other, whose lines are more obscure, may pay its
contribution. If in both hands they consent, and appear to be fair and
comely, they declare a constancy of fortune and health. The cause of
diversity is that he who is born in the daytime, and has a masculine
planet (the Sun, Saturn, Jupiter and Mars) lord of his geniture, bears the
more remarkable signs in his right hand, especially when the sign
ascending is also masculine. The contrary happens to those born at night,
as often as a feminine planet predominates. If both hands agree, it must
be that in a diurnal nativity the feminine planets rule, or that there
falls out a mixture of masculine and feminine; so in the nights by the
contrary reason.


I.--OF THE LINE OF LIFE. THIS IS CALLED CARDIACA, OR THE HEART LINE.

This being broad, of a lively color, and decently drawn in its bounds,
without intersections and points, shows the party long lived and subject
to few diseases.

If slender, short and dissected with obverse little lines, and deformed
either by a pale or black color, it presages weakness of the body,
sickness and a short life.

If orderly joined to the natural mean, and beautified in the angle with
parallels, or a little across, it argues good wit, or an evenness of
nature.

If the same have branches in the upper parts thereof, extending themselves
towards the natural mean, it signifies riches and honor.

If these branches be extended towards the restricta, it threatens poverty,
deceits, and unfaithfulness of servants.

If in this line there be found some confused lines, like hairs, be assured
of diseases, and they happen in the first age. When they appear below, if
towards the cavea, in the middle; if towards the patica, in the declining
age.

If this line be anywhere broken, it threatens extreme danger of life in
that part of the age which the pace of the breach shows. For you may find
out the dangerous or diseased years of your age; this line being divided
into seventy parts, you must begin your number and account from the lower
part thereof, near the restricta, for the number falling where the branch
is determines the year.

If the character of the sun (as commonly it is made by astrologers) be
ever found in this line, it presages the loss of an eye; but, if two such
characters, the loss of both eyes.

A line descending from the vital, beneath the congress of it and the
hepatica, to the tuberculum of Saturn, shows an envious man, who rejoices
at another’s calamity, the sight of others concurring. This also
frequently shows a most perilous Saturnine disease in that wherein it
touches the vital, and it is much worse if it cut the same.

But such a line passing from the vital to the annular, to the ring finger,
promises honors to ensue, from or by the means of some famous lady.

The vital lines being thicker than ordinary at the end under the fore
finger, denotes a laborious old age.

A line passing through the vitals to the cavea of Mars, foretells of
wounds and fevers, and also of misfortunes in journeys.


II.--OF THE HEPATICA, OR NATURAL MEAN.

This line being straight, continued, and not dissected by obverse little
lines, denotes a healthful body.

If it be short or broken, and reach not beyond the concave of the hand, it
shows diseases and shortness of life.

By how much more the same is produced, by so much longer the life may be
warranted.

If cut at the end thereof by a small intervening line, it threatens
poverty in old age.

If in the upper part it be distant from the vital by a great space, it
shows distemperatures of the heart, as palpitations, syncope, &c.

This also shows prodigality, especially if the table be broad.

If tortuous (that is, if it wind and turn several ways), unequal, of a
different color and dissected, it argues an evil constitution of the
liver, and thence diseases, proceeding from the weakness thereof.
Covetousness also, and a depravity both of nature and wit, especially if
it be under the region of the middle finger, and near the cardiaca,
thereby making a short or narrow triangle.

If decently drawn and well colored, it is a sign of a cheerful and
ingenious disposition.

If it has a sister, it promises inheritances.

If continued with some little hard knots, it denotes manslaughters, either
perpetrated, or to be committed, according to the number of these said
knots.

If therein a cross be found under the region of the middle finger, it
announces death to be at hand.

If it terminates with a fork towards the ferient, it is a sign of depraved
wit, of hypocrisy, and of evil manners.

When it tends to the mensa, it is a token of a slanderous tongue and of
envy.

When it projects a remarkable cleft through the vital to the mons veneris,
and the sister of Mars, especially if the same be of a ruddy color, it
warns you to beware of thieves, and also intimates fraud and deceit of
enemies.

This cleft likewise insinuates a most vehement heat of the liver,
proceeding from the rays of Mars; so that the life becomes in danger,
seeing that the line of life is dissected.

This line having some branch, yet such a one as nevertheless seems to be
continued, shows that the manner of life will be, or is already changed;
and this in a declining age if the breach be under the ring finger; but,
if under the middle finger, in strength of years.


III.--OF THE CEPHALICA.

This is called the line of the head and brain, which, if (arising from its
place in a due proportion) it connects the lines of the liver and heart in
a triangular form, have a lively color, and no intersection falling out
between, declares a man of admirable prudence, and one of no vulgar wit
and fortune.

By how much more decent the triangle is, so much the better shall the
temperature, wit and courage be; but if it be obtuse, it argues an evil
disposed nature, and a man that is rude; if no triangle, far worse.

The superior being a right angle, or not very acute, foretells the best
temperature of the heart; but when it is too acute, especially if it touch
the line of life, upon the region of the middle finger, it argues
covetousness.

The left angle, if it be made upon the natural mean in the ferient, and be
a right angle, confirms the goodness of intellect.

But when the cephalica projects unequal clefts to the mons lunæ, thereby
making unusual characters, in the gentleman it denotes weakness of the
brain, and dangerous sea voyages. But in the lady’s hand it shows frequent
sorrows of mind, and difficulties in child bearing.

Equal lines (thus projected) presage the contrary in both sexes, viz., in
gentlemen, a good composure of the brain, and fortunate voyages by sea; in
ladies, cheerfulness and felicity in child bearing.

This one thing is peculiar to the cephalica: if it project a cleft or a
manifest star, upwards to the cavea martis, it signifies boldness, &c. But
if it let fall the same downwards, thefts, &c.

The cephalica, jointed to the dragon’s tail by a remarkable concourse,
promises a prudent and a joyful age.

The same drawn upwards in the shape of a fork, towards the part of
fortune, signifies subtlety in managing affairs, and also craftiness
either to do good or evil.

If in this said fork a mark appears resembling the part of fortune, as it
is noticed by astrologers, that gives an assurance of riches and honor to
succeed by ingenuity and art.


IV.--OF THE THORAL LINE.

This is also called the line of fortune; it is termed likewise the mensa,
because it makes up the table of the hand. Which said line, when it is
long enough, and without incisures, argues a due strength in the principal
members of man, and also constancy; the contrary if it be short, crooked,
cut or parted.

If it terminate under the mount of Saturn, it shows a vain fellow.

If projecting small branches to the mount of Jupiter, it promises honors.

If there it be naked and simple, it is a sign of poverty and want.

If cutting the mouth of Jupiter, cruelty of mind and disposition, with
excessive wrath.

If it projects a branch between the fore and middle finger in a gentleman,
it threatens a wound in his head; in a lady, danger in child bearing.

Three lines ascending upwards from this line, viz., one to the space
between the middle and fore finger, a second to the space between the
middle and ring finger, and a third to the space between the ring and the
little finger, argues a contentious person in many respects.

A little line only thus drawn to the interval or space between the middle
finger and the ring finger, sorrow or labor.

If annexed to the natural mean, so that it makes an acute angle, it brings
sorrow and labor.

If the natural mean be wanting, and the thoral annexed to the vital, it
threatens decollation or a deadly wound.

If no mensa at all, it shows a man malevolent, contentious, faithless,
inconstant and of base condition.

Confused little lines in the mensa, denote sickness; if under Mercury, in
the former part of the age; under the sun in the prime thereof; under the
middle finger, in old age.

When in this line there are certain points observed, they argue strength
of the genitals and burning lust.


V.--OF THE CAUDA DRACONIS, OR THE RESTRICTA, AND THE LINES ARISING
THEREFROM.

If this be double or treble, and drawn by a right and continued track, it
promises a good composure of the body.

That line which is nearest the hand continued, and of a good color,
assures great riches.

But if the same line be cut in the middle, crooked and very pale, it
announces debility of body and want of all things.

A cross or star upon the restricta, foreshadows tranquility of life in old
age.

If there be a star, simple or double, or any lines near the tuberculum of
the thumb, in ladies, they denote misfortune or infamy.

A line running from the restricta through the mons veneris, presages
adversities, either by the means of some kindred or a wife.

A line extending from the restricta to the mons lunæ, denotes adversities
and private enemies; if it be crooked, it doubles the evil, and betokens
perpetual servitude.

Such a line also being clear and straight, and reaching as far as the
region of the moon, foretells many journeys by sea and land.

If it extend to the tuberculum of the fore finger, it informs the
gentleman that he shall live in a foreign country in great estimation.

If to the hepatica, it argues honest behavior, and prolongs life.

If to the mons solis (be it simple or double), it argues exceeding
goodness, and enables to govern or rule in great affairs.

By the same reason, if it pass to the mons Mercurii, it betokens the
gentleman is of a sufficient capacity for any employment; but if it reach
not the mons Mercurii, but is broken about the middle and end beneath the
mons Mercurii, that makes out a prating fellow, &c.

If directly ascending to the mons Saturni, it signifies a good position of
Saturn in the geniture, whose decree shall shortly follow; but, if
crookedly towards the restricta and the hepatica especially, it shows man
laborious, &c.


VI.--OF THE VIA SOLIS, OR THE SUN’S WAY.

This being whole, equally drawn and well colored, promises the favor of
great men and great honor; but, if dissected and unequal, the contrary,
and exposes to divers impediments, and envy in attaining the same.


VII.--OF THE VIA LACTEA, OR THE MILKY WAY.

This well proportioned and continued, presages that journeys will be
fortunate both by sea and land, as ready wit and the favor of the ladies
(Venus assenting), and of a composed and graceful speech; but if it be
distorted, it argues infelicity and lies; but whole and ascending to the
little finger, it is a sign of happiness.


VIII.--OF THE SATURNIA, OR LINE OF SATURN.

This being wholly and fully protracted to the middle finger, is an
argument both of profound cogitations and likewise of fortunate events in
counsels and actions.

Combust or deficient, an evil sign, portending many misfortunes, unless
other positions favor it.

Bending backwards in the cavea of the hand, towards the ferient, in the
form of a semi-circle, threatens imprisonment.

A line drawn from the vital, through the hepatica, to the tuberculum of
Saturn (if it touch the Saturnia), the same.


IX.--OF THE CINGULUM VENERIS, OR THE GIRDLE OF VENUS.

If this line have a sister, it argues intemperance and lust in both sexes,
and baseness in the gratification of lewd desires; and if dissected and
carefully examined, it shows losses and infamy by reason of this vice.


X.--OF THE VIA MARTIS, THE WAY OR LINE OF MARS, OR THE VITAL SISTER.

This line (as often as it appears), augments and strengthens the things
signified by the cardiaca; but particularly it promises good success in
war, provided it be clear and red.


SOME OBSERVATIONS CONCERNING LINES.

The quantity of lines must be wisely observed, that is, the length and
depth, so likewise their quality, that is, their complexion and shape,
whether they are crooked or straight; next their action, which is to touch
or cut other lines. Their passion to be touched or cut of others; and
lastly, their place and position.

We must know that the lines are sometimes prolonged until certain years of
our age, otherwise shortened; now they wax pale, then they become plain
and strong, and as it were luxuriate with a kind of redness, and this as
well in the principal as less principal lines. Again, as touching the less
principal, and such as are found in the tubercula of the planets, it is
most certain that some do at one time quite vanish, and that at another
time others arise of a different shape and complexion; the cause of which
is supposed to be no other than the various progressions of the
alphabetical places in their nativities; that is, fortunate and
unfortunate to the influence whereof man himself is wonderfully subject.
The signs of his hands are presented at different times with different
faces. _Such a virtue, such a love resideth in the imagination of the
greater world towards the lesser._ And, therefore, the most studious in
chiromancy cannot attain the knowledge of particulars by one inspection
only, made to a certain year of the person’s age; things that worthily
merit our observations, yet known or approved of by a few.


OF THE PLANETS.

The planets also administer not a little judgment from their respective
places, for if they are happy and benevolent, good things are portended,
but being unhappy and froward, judge the contrary. Here we must also note
that these planets are termed benevolent, in whose tubercula and places
the accustomed lines are found equal, their characters fair and
proportionable, as a cross, stars, three or four parallel lines, ladders,
little branches, a quadrangular, the character of Jupiter. But the froward
and unfortunate are those planets whose tubercula and places are deformed
with troubled lines and uncouth figures; as a lame and interrupted
semi-circle gridirons the character of Saturn. This is to be duly observed
in the lines of the hand. Now, as touching the planets, let us proceed
according to the general rules of art.


XI.--OF VENUS.

VENUS shining well and happily (that is) when in her tuberculum, she
presents a clear star, or furrows that are red and transversely parallel,
and so often as her tuberculum is much elevated, makes such men to be
merry, cheerful and luxurious; yet amorous, comely and libidinous, very
honest and just, with whom an uninterrupted tie of friendship once made is
permanent.

She renders the body somewhat tall, the eyes pleasant and sparkling with
the splendor of beauty, full of allurement and temptation, the hair thick
and curling; she instills a spotless and noble mind, yet oftentimes gives
men that are full of boasting and inconsistency. She inclines the mind to
music, &c.; sometimes according to the strength of the geniture, she
produces priests, apothecaries, &c.

But being unfortunate, she causes lasciviousness, incontinency and
boasting, and if you find a cross also, near the first joint of the thumb,
it denotes an adulterer, or such a person on whom a misfortune has
happened in some luxurious matter. If the place of Venus be untilled, it
points out an effeminate, rude and sorrowful person, foolishly and
ridiculously addicted to be merry and jesting.


XII.--MARS.

MARS is fortunate, so often as his sister appears red, clear and decently
drawn, and when either star or cross is found in his cavea. Thus,
therefore, he denotes such as are bold and full of courage, stout,
warlike, contentious, strong and lusty; imperious; the hair for the most
part yellow; the eyes from black waxing red and terrible. If Jupiter
participate, he possesses the gall, the reins, the back, the liver, &c. If
with Venus, those parts of the body under her dominion. But if he be
froward and unfortunate, he describes men to be litigious, violent,
deceitful, passionate, &c.


XIII.--JUPITER.

JUPITER is happy or fortunate when in his region he exhibits signs that
are auspicious--that is, if there be a star or double cross, parallel
lines, or a line decently drawn from the vital to his tuberculum, &c. For
thus he signifies men that are noble, honest, benevolent, affable,
honorable, merry, just, equitable, beautiful, formidable and happy, such
as have comely eyes, thick hairs and a grave gesture; likewise such as are
bashful, and likewise such as will keep their promises, &c. These men are
preferred to great dignities, and solicited by many great men, and do
highly favor and esteem their wives, sons, honest and good men. In men,
Jupiter rules the liver, blood, ribs, lungs and gristles. But, if he is
unfortunate, he oftentimes throws a man headlong from a great estate to
great calamities; if there be half a gridiron in his tuberculum, it
betokens losses, especially by means of the more potent sort of women;
otherwise thus constituted, he causes grief of the heart, cramps,
inflammations of the lungs and other diseases proceeding from wind; if a
line transversely cut his tuberculum, and afterwards tend to the place of
Saturn, making those little hairs, it threatens apoplexy. But, if you find
a cross especially, or a clear and red star in his tuberculum, he gives
splendid honors, confers riches and public rewards from great personages
or princes.


XIV.--SATURN.

SATURN is happily placed when we find his line wholly running to his
region, but less happy when he presents some inauspicious characters;
unhappily, if he shows confused and unfortunate signs; he governs the
spleen, bones and bladder. When he is fortunate he makes men silent,
provident, of good and profound counsels, such as think and study much and
are somewhat sorrowful; men that are puffed up with an ambitious spirit,
and whose aim is honors. And these are slender of body, somewhat tall,
pale and feeble, their hair blackish, eyes hollow; they are fortunate in
tilling of ground, and in metals of all sorts, yet more careless of their
wives, and less addicted to the pleasures of love; foolishly laughing and
jesting, also tenacious and worldly minded, unjust, &c. But, if Saturn be
unfortunate or froward, he makes men sorrowful, laborious, sordid, humble,
covetous, liars, malicious, envious, &c., and encumbered with perpetual
griefs and anxieties.

A gross line running from the interval of the middle and fore finger to
the mensa, and breaking or interrupting it, denotes diseases or wounds in
the lower part of the body.


XV.--SOL.

If the SUN fortunately rules, he makes men faithful, ingenious, honored,
high minded, wise, humane, religious, just, moderate, aged, and such as
always manage their affairs honestly. He gives a body well composed, and
adorns it with yellow hair; he governs the heart, midriff, nerves, &c.

But, if unfortunate, he gives men that are proud and highly elated,
manifesting their access to dignities by unjust means, boasters and
immodest. He brings fluxes of rheum upon the eyes, and thereby hurts both
them and the mouth, trembling of the heart, syncope, &c.


XVI.--LUNA.

The MOON happy and fortunate, makes men famous, honest and honorable and
of a large body; yet well proportioned, pleasant also, and sometimes
voyages by sea and walking by the sides of rivers; but, if any way
dissenting in the other, unconstant both in life and action, yet tending
for the most part to the best. She rules the brain, stomach and belly, but
if unfortunate she portends a various and inconstant kind of line,
weakness, and increase of griefs and anxieties, she thus causes paralysis,
&c. A commotion of the members, oftentimes an epilepsy and canker, spots
in the body, severe colic, and whatever else proceeds from abundance of
cold and moisture, and more especially when the lines found in the
tuberculum of the moon do appear very pale; if there be fair and comely
signatures near the ferient, they denote happiness to the man in his
journeys and messages, and in foreign countries. To the woman, felicity
and fertility in bearing of children, ominous signs do show the contrary.


XVII.--MERCURY.

MERCURY, happy and fortunate, makes men ingenious, desirous of science,
and seeking diligently after secrets, such as are apt for any thing,
orators, poets, philosophers, astrologicians, fortune-tellers, eloquent,
variable, mathematicians, and men addicted to merchandise, &c. He governs
the tongue and memory.


XVIII.--THE MENSA, OR PART OF FORTUNE.

This space being great and broad, and the figure decent, declares a
liberal man, magnanimous and of long life.

But if small and narrow, it indicates a slender fortune and fearfulness.

A cross or star within it, clear and well proportioned, especially under
the region of the ring finger, betokens honors and dignities to ensue
from, or by means of great and noble personages. If the character of
Jupiter, it then promises great ecclesiastical dignities, &c.

The same star or cross tripled, portends good fortune; but if it be cut by
confused little lines, the good fortune is thereby diverted, and anxieties
and labors threatened in defending his honors, especially if they are
under the region of the ring finger.

A cross or star in the uppermost part of the mensa, is a sign of fortunate
journeys.

The mensa sharpened by the concourse of the thoral and cardiac lines,
points out deceit and danger of life.

If no mensa be shown in the hand, it shows obscurity both of life and
fortune.

Good and equal lines in this space do declare the fortune to be good, but
if evil and decomposed they quite overthrow it.

A little circle shows perfection of wit, and the obtaining of science, the
others assenting thereunto.


XIX.--THE POLLEX, OR THUMB.

Overthwart lines, that are clear and long underneath the nail and joint of
the thumb, confer riches and honor. A line passing from the upper joint of
the thumb to the cardiaca, threatens a violent death or danger by means of
some married lady. Lines much dispersed in the lower joint of the thumb,
describe men that are contentious, and such as rejoice in scolding, &c. A
line surrounding the thumb, in the middle joint, portends the man shall be
hanged. Equal furrows drawn under the lower joint thereof, argue riches
and possessions. If the first or second joint want incisures, it shows
drowsiness and idleness.


XX.--THE INDEX, OR FORE FINGER.

Many lines in the uppermost joint, and they proceeding overthwartly,
denote inheritances; by running so in the middle joint, an envious and
evil disposed person.

Right lines running between these joints, declare (in the ladies) a
numerous issue; in gentlemen, bitterness of tongue. If they are in the
first joint, near unto Jupiter’s mouth, they manifest a jovial
disposition, that is, they point to the man whom Jupiter favored well in
his nativity. That who hath a star in the same place, may certainly be
pronounced unchaste and lascivious.


XXI.--MEDIUS, OR THE MIDDLE FINGER.

This finger presenting little gridirons in the joints thereof, plainly
declares an unhappy and melancholy wit, but if equal lines, it manifests
fortune by metals, &c. A star there presages a violent death by drowning,
&c. If a gross line be extended from the root thereof, upwards, through
the whole finger into the end of the last joint, it argues folly and
madness.


XXII.--ANNULARIS, OR THE RING FINGER.

A line arising from mons solis, and ascending by a right track through the
joints thereof, it shows a noble frame. Equal lines in the first joint
demonstrate honors and riches; overthwart lines, the enmity of great men.
Howbeit, if these lines be intersected, it is better, because they argue
impediments.


XXIII.--AURICULARIS, OR LITTLE FINGER.

From the joint thereof, as from the mouth itself, are judgments and
decrees passed concerning merchandise, favors, and a star in its first
joint near the tuberculum, argues ingenuity and eloquence.

Other obtuse signs the contrary, but when there appear unfortunate signs
in the first and second joints, they mark out a thief and a very deceitful
person. If adverse lines in the last joint, perpetual inconstancy.

Some there are who predict the number of wives from the little lines in
the mons Mercurii at the outermost part of the hand, and have often
observed them come at the truth.

If the end of this finger reach not so far as to touch the last joint of
the ring finger, it signifies a wife most imperious in all things, the
truth thereof is often proved.


CONSIDERATIONS ON THE MOUNTS AND FINGERS.

As the mounts being adorned with good figures and characters indicate a
good and happy issue, so likewise being vitiated with confused lines, they
threaten the contrary, and this as well on the fingers as mounts, except
they are restrained by the confederacy of other lines which are of
themselves good and fortunate.

There are likewise the twelve signs of the Zodiac upon the fingers. The
signification of the lines proceeding from the mounts of the different
planets upon the fingers, show their effect chiefly when the sun, or their
principal significator, as lord of the ascendant, &c., is in these signs,
ruling the parts where they terminate, as a line passing from the mount of
Saturn to the first point of the middle finger would give improvement when
the sun was in Pisces; if to the second, in Aquarius. Observe also that
the first joint near the mount of the finger must be attributed to the
first part of the age, the second to the prime of life, and the last unto
old age.

Lastly. The structure of the hand itself is really admirable in respect to
the proportion it bears to the face, and certain parts thereof, which is
this:

The whole hand is of equal length with the face.

The greater joint of the forefinger (which adjoins upon the tuberculum of
Jupiter) equals the height of the forehead.

The other two (to the extremity of the nail) are just the length of the
nose, viz.: from the intercelia, or place between the eyebrows, to the tip
of the nostrils.

The first and greater joint of the middle finger is just as long as it is
between the bottom of the chin and the top of the under lip.

But the third joint of the same finger is of equal length with the
distance that is between the mouth and the lower part of the nostrils.

The largest joint of the thumb gives the width of the mouth.

The distance between the bottom of the chin and the top of the lower lip,
the same.

The lesser joint of the thumb is equal to the distance between the top of
the lower lip and the lower part of the nostrils. The nails obtain just
the half of their respective uppermost joints, which they call omychios.


OF THE NAILS OF THE FINGERS.

Broad nails show the person to be bashful and fearful, but of a gentle
nature. When there is a certain white mark at the extremity of them, it
shows that the person has more honesty than subtilty, and that his worldly
substance will be impaired through negligence. White nails and long,
denote much sickness and infirmity, especially fevers, and are an
indication of strength, and deceit in women. If upon the white anything
appears at the extremity that is pale, it denotes short life by sudden
death, and the person to be given to melancholy. When there appear a
sudden mixed redness of divers colors at the beginning of the nail, it
shows the person to be choleric, and very quarrelsome. When the extremity
is black, it is a sign of husbandry. Narrow nails denote the person to be
inclined to mischief and to do injury to his neighbor. Long nails show the
person to be good natured, but mistrustful, and loves reconciliation
rather than differences. Oblique nails signify deceit and want of courage.
Little and round nails denote obstinate anger and hatred; if they be
crooked at the extremity, they show pride and fierceness. Round nails show
a choleric person, yet soon reconciled and a lover of secret sciences.
Fleshy nails denote the person to be mild in temper, idle and lazy. Pale
and black nails show the person to be very deceitful to his neighbor, and
subject to many diseases. Red and marked nails signify a choleric and
martial nature, given to cruelty: and as many little marks as there are,
they speak of so many evil desires.




CELESTIAL PALMISTRY.


The Moon exercises an influence over the children of men, which varies
with her monthly age, in like manner as that of the sun is varied
according to his progress through the signs of the zodiac. Her term is
completed in thirty days and recurs twelve times annually. The probable
fate of each individual through life is to be gathered from the aspect of
the day on which he was born; and the issue of any particular event or
undertaking from the day of its occurrence or transaction or commencement;
counting in both cases from the _new moon_, as is shown in the following
calendar. She has power over dreams and visions; and exercises it more
particularly on certain days.

A child born within twenty-four hours after the new moon will be fortunate
and live to a good old age. Whatever is dreamed on that day will be
pleasing to the dreamer.

The second day is very lucky for discovering things lost, or hidden
treasure; the child born on this day will thrive.

The child born on the third day will be fortunate through persons in
power, and whatever is dreamed will prove true.

The fourth day is evil; persons falling sick on this day rarely recover.

The fifth day is favorable to begin a good work and dreams will be
tolerably successful; the child born on this day will be vain and
deceitful.

The child born on the sixth day will not live long, and his dreams will
not immediately come to pass.

On the seventh day do not tell your dreams, for much depends on concealing
them; if sickness befalls you on this day you will soon recover; the child
born on this day will live long, but have many troubles.

On the eighth day whatever is dreamed will come to pass; whatever business
a person undertakes on this day will prosper.

The ninth day differs very little from the former; the child born on this
day will arrive at great riches and honor.

The tenth day is likely to be fatal to those who fall sick; but the child
born on this day will live long and be a great traveler.

The child that is born on the eleventh day will be much devoted to
religion, and of an engaging form and manners.

On the twelfth day dreams are rather fortunate and the child born then
shall live long.

On the thirteenth day the dreams will prove true in a very short time.

If you ask a favor of any one on the fourteenth day, it will be granted.

The sickness that befalls a person on the fifteenth day is likely to prove
mortal.

The child that is born on the sixteenth day will be of very ungraceful
manners and unfortunate; it is nevertheless a good day for buying and
selling merchandise.

The child born on the seventeenth day will be very foolish; it is a very
unfortunate day to transact any kind of business or contract marriage.

The child born on the eighteenth day will be valiant, but will suffer
considerable hardships; if a female, she will be chaste and industrious
and live respected to a great age.

The nineteenth day is dangerous; the child born during it will be very
ill-disposed and malicious.

On the twentieth day the dreams are true, but the child born during it
will be dishonest.

The child born on the twenty-first day will grow up healthy and strong,
but selfishly inclined and of low habits.

The child born on the twenty-second day will be fortunate; he or she will
be of cheerful countenance, religious, and much beloved.

The child that is born on the twenty-third day will be of an ungovernable
temper, will forsake his friends and wander about in a foreign country,
unhappy through life.

The child born on the twenty-fourth day will achieve many heroic actions
and be much admired for his extraordinary abilities.

The child born on the twenty-fifth day will be very wicked; he will meet
with many dangers and will probably come to an ill end.

On the twenty-sixth day the dreams are certain; the child then born will
be rich and greatly esteemed.

The twenty-seventh day is very favorable for dreams, and the child then
born will be of a sweet and amiable disposition.

The child born on the twenty-eighth day will be the delight of his
parents, but will not live to a great age.

The child born on the twenty-ninth day will experience many hardships,
though in the end they may turn out happily. It is good to marry on this
day, and business begun on this day will be prosperous.

And, finally, the child that is born on the thirtieth day will be
fortunate and happy and well skilled in arts and sciences.


CHILDREN BORN ANY DAY OF THE WEEK.

_Sunday._--The child shall be of long life and obtain riches.

_Monday._--Weak and of an effeminate temper, which seldom brings a man to
honor.

_Tuesday._--Worse; though he may, with extraordinary vigilance, conquer
the inordinate desires to which he will be subject; still he will be in
danger of dying by violence, if he has not great procreation.

_Wednesday._--He shall be given to the study of learning and shall profit
thereby.

_Thursday._--He shall arrive at great honor and dignity.

_Friday._--He shall be of a strong constitution, yet perhaps remarkably
lecherous.

_Saturday._--Is another bad day; but, notwithstanding, the child may come
to good, though it be seldom; but most children born on this day are of a
heavy, dull and very dogged disposition.


SICKNESS--LUCKY AND UNLUCKY DAYS.

Whoever, in the first day of any month, fall sick, or is attacked with any
infirmity, the third day ensuing is to be feared, which, if he pass, he
shall escape.

Those falling ill on the second day of any month, though they be long
confined, yet shall recover.

Any illness commencing on the third day will certainly terminate
favorably.

Those falling sick on the fourth day will probably linger until the
twenty-eighth, which, if they pass, may possibly recover.

Those taken ill on the fifth day may become very low, but will recover.

Persons falling sick on the sixth day may recover, if they pass the fifth
day of the ensuing month, but they will stand a poor chance of recovery.

The seventh is a lucky day, and one falling sick on this day may recover,
even though having to endure great suffering.

The eighth day is an unfortunate one, and those falling ill on it will not
be likely to survive.

Illness commencing on the ninth day will not usually prove fatal, though
sometimes so.

On the tenth day, the contrary.

The eleventh day is remarkably fortunate for those falling sick; they will
recover speedily.

It is a bad omen to be taken sick on the twelfth of any month; for unless
you recover within two or three days, you will most certainly die within
the year.

Those falling sick on the thirteenth day, if they pass five days, they
will quite likely recover.

The fourteenth is a lucky day, and those taken sick on it will recover in
forty-eight hours.

On the contrary, those falling ill on the fifteenth day may experience
long and lingering illness, which will probably prove fatal.

Those taken on the sixteenth day, may escape, after some weeks of illness.

Persons falling ill on the seventeenth day are almost sure to die within
three weeks.

The eighteenth is a lucky day and those falling sick on that day will
undoubtedly recover.

The nineteenth, the same--though the sickness may last much longer.

The twentieth is an uncertain day, and sickness commencing on this day
frequently terminates fatally, if it continue more than five days.

The twenty-first day perils one’s life for ten days--that time passed, you
will recover.

Those falling sick on the twenty-second, will die within forty-eight
hours, or after that time will certainly recover.

Those taken sick on the twenty-third will stand a chance of lingering
illness, which will probably terminate favorably.

The twenty-fourth is another unlucky day, and those falling ill on that
day, though they be partially restored, will probably die within three
months.

On the contrary, the twenty-fifth is a very favorable day, and those
falling sick will get well speedily.

The twenty-sixth portends a protracted illness, which will terminate
favorably.

The twenty-seventh threatens death, though the chances of recovery are
fair.

Those falling ill on the twenty-eighth, menace death.

Persons who are taken sick on the twenty-ninth day will have a very
protracted illness and recover slowly.

The thirtieth and thirty-first are uncertain days, and persons falling
sick on either of these days, it cannot be known whether they will recover
or not.




ASTROLOGICAL MISCELLANY.


DAYS OF THE MONTH.


I.--FORTUNATE.

In January, six days: the 1st, 2d, 15th, 26th, 27th and 28th.

In February, four days: the 11th, 21st, 25th and 26th.

In March, two days: the 10th and 24th.

In April, five days: the 6th, 15th, 16th, 20th and 28th.

In May, three days: the 3d, 18th and 31st.

In June, five days: the 10th, 11th, 15th, 22d and 25th.

In July, three days: the 9th, 15th and 28th.

In August, six days: the 6th, 7th, 10th, 11th, 19th and 25th.

In September, five days: the 4th, 8th, 17th, 18th and 23d.

In October, five days: the 3d, 7th, 16th, 21st and 22d.

In November, three days: the 5th, 14th and 20th.

In December, six days: the 15th, 19th, 20th, 22d, 23d and 25th.


II.--UNFORTUNATE.

In January, seven days: the 3d, 4th, 6th, 13th, 14th, 20th and 21st.

In February, seven days: the 3d, 7th, 9th, 12th, 16th, 17th and 23d.

In March, eight days: the 1st, 2d, 5th, 8th, 12th, 16th, 28th and 29th.

In April, two days: the 24th and 25th.

In May, five days: the 17th, 20th, 27th, 29th and 30th.

In June, eight days: the 1st, 5th, 6th, 9th, 12th, 16th, 18th and 24th.

In July, four days: the 3d, 10th, 17th and 18th.

In August, two days: the 15th and 20th.

In September, two days: the 9th and 16th.

In October, six days: the 4th, 9th, 11th, 17th, 27th and 31st.

In November, four days: the 3d, 9th, 10th and 21st.

In December, two days: the 14th and 21st.


IMPORTANT ADVICE.

TO FEMALES.--It has often been observed, and experience has shown the
observation to be a true one, that some event of importance is sure to
happen to a woman in her thirty-first year, whether it prove for her good
or it be some great evil or temptation; therefore we advise her to be
circumspect in all her actions. If she is a maiden or widow, it is
probable she will marry this year. If a wife, that she will lose her
children or husband. She will either receive riches or travel into a
foreign land; at all events, some circumstance or other will take place
during this remarkable year of her life, that will have great effect on
her future fortunes and existence.

TO MALES.--The like is applicable to men in their forty-second year, of
which there are so many instances that there is not a doubt of its truth.
Observe always to take a lease for an odd number of years; an even number
is not prosperous. The three first days of the moon are the best for
signing papers; and the first five days, as well as the twenty-fourth, for
any fresh undertaking.




MOLES. THEIR SITUATION AND THE INDICATION THEY GIVE OF A PERSON’S
DISPOSITION AND FUTURE LOT IN LIFE.


Though moles are, in their substance, nothing else than excrescences, or
ebullitions which proceed from the state of the blood whilst the fœtus is
confined in the womb, yet they are not given in vain, as they are
generally characteristic of the disposition and temper of those that bear
them; and it is also proved by daily experience that from the shape,
situation and other circumstances, they bear a strong analogy to the
events which are to happen to a person in future life. Herein are given
the common prognostications by moles found in all the various parts of the
body, according to the doctrine of the ancients. The larger the mole, the
greater the prosperity or adversity of the person; the smaller the mole,
the less will be his good or evil fate. If the mole is round, it indicates
good; if angular, it gives a mixture of good and evil; if oblong, a
moderate share of fortunate events; the deeper the color, the more favor
or disgrace; the lighter, the less of either. If it is very hairy, much
misfortune may be expected; but if few long hairs grow upon it, it denotes
that your undertakings will be prosperous.

A mole that stands on the right side of the forehead, or right temple,
signifies that the person will arrive at sudden wealth and honor,
according to their birth and situation in life; which must always be
attended to with due consideration.

A mole on the right eyebrow announces speedy marriage; and that the person
to whom you will be married will possess many amiable qualities and a good
fortune.

A mole on the left of either of these three places announces unexpected
disappointment in your most sanguine wishes.

A mole on the outside corner of either eye denotes the person to be of a
sober, steady and sedate disposition; but will be liable to a violent
death.

A mole on either cheek signifies that the person shall never rise above
mediocrity in point of fortune; though at the same time he will never fall
into real poverty.

A mole on the nose shows that the person will have good success in most of
his or her undertakings.

A mole on the lip, either upper or lower, proves the person to be fond of
delicate things and much given to the pleasures of love, in which he or
she will most commonly be successful.

A mole on the chin foreshows the person will be attended with prosperity
and be highly esteemed.

A mole on the side of the neck shows that the person will narrowly escape
suffocation; but will afterward rise to great consideration by an
unexpected legacy or inheritance.

A mole on the throat denotes that the person shall become rich by
marriage.

A mole on the right breast declares the person to be exposed to a sudden
reverse from comfort to distress, by unavoidable accidents. Most of his
children will be girls.

A mole on the left breast signifies success in undertakings and an amorous
disposition.

A mole on the bosom portends mediocrity of health and fortune.

A mole under the left breast, over the heart, foreshadows that the man
will be of a warm disposition, unsettled in mind, fond of rambling and
light in his conduct. In a lady, it shows sincerity in love, quick
conception and easy travail in childbirth.

A mole on the right side, over any part of the ribs, denotes the person to
be pusillanimous, and slow in understanding anything that may be attended
with difficulty.

A mole on the belly, denotes the person to be addicted to sloth and
gluttony, selfish in almost all articles and seldom inclined to be nice or
careful in point of dress.

A mole on either hip shows that the person will have many children and
such of them as survive will be healthful, lusty and patient in all
hardships.

A mole on the right thigh shows that the person will become rich and also
fortunate in marriage.

A mole on the left thigh denotes that the person suffers much by poverty
and want of friends, as also by the enmity and injustice of others.

A mole on the right knee signifies that the person will be fortunate in
the choice of a partner for life and meet with few disappointments in the
world.

A mole on the left knee portends that the person will be rash,
inconsiderate and hasty, but modest when in cold blood, honest and
inclined to good behavior.

A mole on either leg shows that the person is indolent, thoughtless and
indifferent as to whatever may happen.

A mole on either ankle denotes a man to be inclined to effeminacy and
elegance of dress--a lady, to be courageous, active and industrious, with
some spice of the termagant.

A mole on either foot forebodes sudden illness or unexpected misfortune.

A mole on the right shoulder signifies prudence, discretion, secrecy and
wisdom.

A mole on the left shoulder declares a testy, contentious and ungovernable
spirit.

A mole on the right arm denotes vigor and undaunted courage. On the left
arm, resolution and victory in battle.

A mole near either elbow declares restlessness, a roving and unsteady
temper, also a discontentedness with those whom they are obliged
constantly to live with.

A mole between the elbow and the wrist promises the person prosperity, but
not until he has undergone and suffered many hardships.

A mole on the wrist, or between it and the ends of the fingers, denotes
industry, parsimony, fidelity and conjugal affection.

A mole against the heart denotes wickedness. If a woman have a mole on her
right knee, she will be honest and virtuous; if on the left, she will have
many children.

If a woman have a mole on her lower jaw, it signifies she will pass her
life in sorrow and pain of body.

A mole in the midst of the forehead, near the hair, denotes a
discourteous, cruel mind and of unpleasant discourse; if it is of a honey
color, the person will be beloved; if red, sullen and furious; if black,
inexpert and wavering; if raised more like a wart, very fortunate. But if
a woman, it shows her to be a slut; and if in her forehead black,
treacherous, consents to evil and murder.

A mole on the left side of the forehead, near the hair, predicts misery
and abundance of tribulations to a man, by means of his own misconduct; if
honey-colored or red, his sorrows are lessened; but if black, unfortunate
in every undertaking.

A mole on the left side of the forehead, about the midway, threatens a man
with persecutions from his superiors; if of honey color, he prodigally
wastes his estate; if red, he will become poor; if black, let him beware
of the wrath or malice of great men; if a woman, it threatens sorrow by
the perfidy of some men; if black, she will partake of the extremity of
misery.

A mole on the left side of the forehead, a little above the temple, if it
appear red, denotes a man has excellent wit and understanding; if black,
he is in danger of being branded for his falsehoods; if he has a wart, his
fate is mitigated. To a woman it signifies justification of innocence,
though not deserved; if black, malignity, and it represents every evil.

A mole appearing on the right temple, above the eye, near the head,
denotes a long life and good fortune; if pale, or red, he is studious; to
a woman, it signifies good and happy fortune in marriage, as she will be
of careful conduct.

A mole on the right temple, inclining towards the neck, promiseth
ingenuity and riches, as also long life; if honey or red colored, good
fortune; if black, trouble; but if as a wart, he shall obtain all good
things.

A mole on the left side, towards the upper part of the eye, signifies
sickness; if black, a short life; if as a wart, it denotes a good end. To
a woman, moderate health, loss of favor of friends, perverse children and
enemies; if black, many miseries.

A mole on the ear signifies riches and respect.

If either in a man or woman’s hand a mole appears, it denotes great
prosperity and enjoyment of children.

A mole on the left side of the stomach shows a luxurious person.

A mole on the left side of the belly denotes afflictions.

A mole under the hollow of the right eye signifies the party to be
furious.




CHARTOLOGY, OR DIVINATION BY CARDS.


Take a pack of cards, shuffle and cut them three different times, lay them
on a table, nine in a row; if a man, he may choose one of the kings to
represent himself; if a woman, she must select one of the queens; then the
queen of the chosen king or the king of the chosen queen, will stand for a
husband or wife, mistress or lover, of the party whose fortune is to be
told; and the knave of the suit for the most intimate person of their
family. Remember that everything is within your circle as far as you can
count nine, any way from the card that represents the person, his wife, or
her husband, and their intimate friend; also, that the ninth card, every
way, is of the greatest consequence.


CLUBS.

_Ace of Clubs_ promises great wealth, much prosperity in life and
tranquillity of mind.

_King of Clubs_ announces a man who is humane, upright, affectionate and
faithful in all his undertakings; he will be happy himself and make his
connections so if he can.

_Queen of Clubs_ shows a tender, mild and rather amorous disposition, one
who will probably yield herself to a kind lover before the matrimonial
knot is tied; but they will be happy, love each other and be married.

_Knave of Clubs_ shows an open, sincere friend, who will exert himself
warmly in your interest and welfare.

_Ten of Clubs_ denotes that riches will come speedily from an unexpected
quarter; it also threatens the loss of some dear friend.

_Nine of Clubs_ shows that you will displease some of your friends by a
too steady adherence to your own opinion.

_Eight of Clubs_ shows the person to be covetous and extremely fond of
money; that he will obtain it, but that it will rather prove a torment
than a comfort to him, as he will not make a proper use of it.

_Seven of Clubs_ promises the most brilliant fortune and the most
exquisite bliss that this world can afford; but beware of the opposite
sex, as from these alone can you experience misfortune.

_Six of Clubs_ shows you will enter into a very lucrative partnership and
that your children will behave well.

_Five of Clubs_ declares that you will be shortly married to a person who
will improve your circumstances.

_Four of Clubs_ shows inconstancy for the sake of money and change of
object.

_Trey of Clubs_ shows that you will be three times married and each time
to a wealthy person.

_Deuce of Clubs_ shows that there will be some unfortunate opposition to
your favorite inclination which will disturb you.


DIAMONDS.

_Ace of Diamonds_ signifies a letter.

_King of Diamonds_ shows a man of fiery temper, continued anger, seeking
revenge and obstinate in his resolutions.

_Queen of Diamonds_ signifies that the woman will be fond of company, be a
coquette and not over virtuous.

_Knave of Diamonds_, however nearly related, will look more after his own
interest than yours; he will be tenacious of his own opinion and will fly
off if contradicted.

_Ten of Diamonds_ promises a country husband or wife, with great wealth
and many children; the card next to it tells the number of children; it
also signifies a purse of gold.

_Nine of Diamonds_ declares that the person will be of a roving
disposition, never contented with his lot, and forever meeting with
vexations and disappointments.

_Eight of Diamonds_ shows that the person, in youth, will be an enemy to
marriage and thus run the risk of dying unmarried; but that if he does
marry, it will be late in life and then it will be with a person whose
disposition is so ill assorted to his own that it will be the cause of
misfortune.

_Seven of Diamonds_ shows you will be tormented by the infidelity of your
conjugal partner and waste of goods.

_Six of Diamonds_ shows an early marriage and premature widowhood, but a
second marriage will probably be worse.

_Five of Diamonds_ shows that you will have good children, who will keep
you from grief.

_Four of Diamonds_ shows the incontinence of the person you will be
married to, and great vexation to yourself through the whole course of
your life.

_Trey of Diamonds_ shows that you will be engaged in quarrels, lawsuits
and domestic disagreements; your partner for life will be a vixen and of
abusive temper, fail in the performance of the nuptial duties and make you
unhappy.

_Deuce of Diamonds_ shows that your heart will be engaged in love at an
early period; that your parents will not approve of your choice, and that
if you marry without their consent they will hardly forgive you.


HEARTS.

_Ace of Hearts_ signifies feasting and pleasure; if the ace is attended by
spades it foretells quarrelling; if by hearts, it shows affection and
friendship; if by diamonds, you will hear of some absent friend; if by
clubs, merry-making.

_King of Hearts_ shows a man of good natured dissipation, but hot and
hasty, rash in his undertakings, and very amorous.

_Queen of Hearts_ denotes a woman of fair complexion, faithful and
affectionate.

_Knave of Hearts_ is a person of no particular sex, but always the dearest
friend or nearest relation of the consulting party. You must pay great
attention to the cards that stand next to the knave, as from them alone
you can judge whether the person it represents will favor your
inclinations or not.

_Ten of Hearts_ shows good nature and many children; it is a corrective of
bad tidings of the cards that stand next to it; its neighboring cards are
of good report and it ascertains and confirms their value.

_Nine of Hearts_ promises wealth, grandeur and high esteem; if cards that
are unfavorable stand near it, you must look for disappointments, and a
reverse if favorable cards follow; these last at a small distance, except
to retrieve your losses whether of peace or of goods.

_Eight of Hearts_ is a sign of drinking and feasting.

_Seven of Hearts_ shows the person to be fickle and of an unfaithful
disposition; addicted to vice, incontinent, and subject to the mean art of
recrimination to excuse themselves although without foundation.

_Six of Hearts_ shows a generous, open and credulous disposition; easily
imposed upon, ever the dupe of flatterers, but the good natured friend of
the distressed. If this card comes before your king or queen, you will be
the dupe; if after, you will have the better.

_Five of Hearts_ shows a wavering and unsteady disposition, never true to
one object, but free from every violent attachment.

_Four of Hearts_ shows the person will not be married until very late in
life, which will proceed from too great a delicacy in making a choice.

_Trey of Hearts_ shows that your own imprudence will greatly contribute to
your experiencing much ill-will from others.

_Deuce of Hearts_ shows that extraordinary success and good fortune will
attend the person; though, if unfavorable cards attend, this will be a
long time delayed.


SPADES.

_Ace of Spades_ totally relates to affairs of love, without specifying
whether lawful or unlawful; it also denotes death when the card is upside
down.

_King of Spades_ shows a man ambitious and successful at court, or with
some great man, who will have it in his power to advance him; but let him
beware of a reverse.

_Queen of Spades_ shows that a person will be corrupted by the rich of
both sexes; and, if she is handsome, great attempts will be made on her
virtue.

_Knave of Spades_ shows a person who, although they have your welfare at
heart, will be too indolent to pursue it with zeal, unless you frequently
raise their attention.

_Ten of Spades_ is a card of bad import; it will in a great measure
counteract the good effects of the cards near you.

_Nine of Spades_ is the worst card in the pack; it portends dangerous
sickness, a total loss of fortune, cruel calamities and endless dissension
in your family.

_Eight of Spades_ shows you will experience strong opposition from your
friends, or those you imagine to be such. If this card comes close to you,
leave your plan and adopt another.

_Seven of Spades_ shows the loss of a most valuable friend, whose death
will plunge you in very great distress.

_Six of Spades_ announces a mediocrity of fortune, and very great
uncertainty in your undertakings.

_Five of Spades_ will give very little interpretation of your success; it
promises good luck in the choice of your companion for life, that you will
meet with one fond of you, and immoderately attached to the joys of Hymen;
it shows your temper rather sullen.

_Four of Spades_ shows much sickness, and that your friends will injure
your fortune.

_Trey of Spades_ shows that you will be fortunate in marriage, but that
your partner will be inconstant, and that you will be made very unhappy
thereby.

_Deuce of Spades_ always signifies a coffin, but who it is for must depend
entirely on the other cards near it.




PROGNOSTICATIONS BY DICE.


This is a certain and innocent way of finding out common occurrences about
to take place. Take three dice, shake them well in the box with your left
hand, and then cast them out on a board or table, on which you have
previously drawn a circle with chalk.

    _Three._--A pleasing surprise.

    _Four._--A disagreeable one.

    _Five._--A stranger who will prove a friend.

    _Six._--Loss of property.

    _Seven._--Undeserved scandal.

    _Eight._--Merited reproach.

    _Nine._--A wedding.

    _Ten._--A christening.

    _Eleven._--A death that concerns you.

    _Twelve._--A letter speedily.

    _Thirteen._--Tears and sighs.

    _Fourteen._--Beware that you are not drawn into some trouble or plot
    by a secret enemy.

    _Fifteen._--Immediate prosperity and happiness.

    _Sixteen._--A pleasant journey.

    _Seventeen._--You will either be on the water or have dealings with
    those belonging to it, to your advantage.

    _Eighteen._--A great profit, rise in life, or some most desirable
    good will happen almost immediately; for the answers to the dice are
    always fulfilled within nine days. To show the same number twice at
    one trial, portends news from abroad, be the number what it may. If
    the dice roll over the circle, the number thrown goes for nothing,
    but the occurrence shows sharp words; and if they fall to the floor,
    it is blows. In throwing out the dice, if one remains on top of the
    other, it is a present of which I would have them take care.




AUGURIES BY DOMINOES.


Lay them with their faces on the table and shuffle them; then draw one,
and see the number.

    _Double-six._--Receiving a handsome sum of money.

    _Six-five._--Going to a public amusement.

    _Six-four._--Lawsuits.

    _Six-three._--Ride in a coach.

    _Six-two._--Present of clothing.

    _Six-one._--You will perform a friendly action.

    _Six-blank._--Guard against scandal, or you will suffer by your
    inattention.

    _Double-five._--A new abode to your advantage.

    _Five-four._--A fortunate speculation.

    _Five-three._--A visit from a superior.

    _Five-two._--A water party.

    _Five-one._--A love intrigue.

    _Five-blank._--A funeral, but not of a relation.

    _Double-four._--Drinking liquor at a distance.

    _Four-three._--A false alarm at your house.

    _Four-two._--Beware of thieves or swindlers. Ladies take note, this
    means more than it says.

    _Four-one._--Trouble from creditors.

    _Four-blank._--Letter from an angry friend.

    _Double-three._--Sudden wedding, at which you will be vexed, and by
    which you will lose a friend.

    _Three-two._--Buy no lottery tickets, nor enter into any game of
    chance, or you will lose.

    _Three-one._--A great discovery at hand.

    _Three-blank._--An illegitimate child.

    _Double-two._--Vexations from a jealous partner.

    _Two-one._--You will mortgage or pledge some property soon.

    _Double-one._--You will find something to your advantage.

    _Double-blank._--The worst presage in all the set; you will meet
    trouble from a quarter for which you are quite unprepared.




TALISMEN, CHARMS, SPELLS AND INCANTATIONS.


TALISMAN FOR WAR AND BATTLE.

[Illustration]

This Talisman, which is to be made of highly tempered steel, bears on it
the powerful words, and also the awful sign, which were conveyed to the
Emperor Constantine from heaven, in daylight, and in the presence of his
whole army, and whereby he was victorious in battle. It is to be tied
around the sword arm.

An ancient manuscript says of it, “He that beareth this sign about him,
shall be helpen in every need and necessity.”


A TALISMAN FOR DESTROYING INSECTS AND REPTILES.

[Illustration]

This Talisman is to be made of iron, when the sun and moon enter the sign
Scorpio. It has been proved to be powerful in effect; so much so, that no
kind of venomous reptile or troublesome insect can come within some yards
of the house or place in which it is. The manuscript from which the
account of this talisman is taken cost a very large sum, and a medical
gentleman, to whom it belonged, affirms that he has himself proved its
efficacy; for being at one time much annoyed by beetles, he made a
talisman, according to instructions here given, and screwed it to the
floor, when these troublesome insects immediately disappeared; but
afterwards, when the servant removed it, through ignorance, they returned
in great numbers; when he again nailed it to the floor, and they again
disappeared.


TALISMAN FOR LOVE.

[Illustration]

This Talisman is said to be wonderfully efficacious in procuring success
in amours and love adventures. It must be made when Venus, the planet of
love, is the evening star. It should be made of pure silver and worn
directly over the heart, on the left breast.


TALISMAN AGAINST ENEMIES.

[Illustration]

This Talisman is to be cast of the purest grain tin, and during the
increase of the moon. The characters are to be engraved on it also during
the increase of the moon. It may be suspended about the neck, or worn on
any part of the body, so that it be kept from the sight of all but the
wearer. Its effects are to give victory over enemies, protection against
their machinations, and to inspire the wearers thereof with most
remarkable confidence.


TALISMAN FOR HEALING DISEASE.

    A B R A C A D A B R A
     A B R A C A D A B R
      A B R A C A D A B
       A B R A C A D A
        A B R A C A D
         A B R A C A
          A B R A C
           A B R A
            A B R
             A B
              A

The letters which compose this charm must be inscribed in a pyramidical
form, as above, on the purest white beeswax, of the ordinary thickness,
and of a size sufficiently large to admit of the letters being distinctly
written by the individual who is sick; or, if he is too sick, by his
dearest friend next at hand. Use for writing them a pen made of the quill
of a raven, and ink compounded of the smoke of a concentrated taper and
rain water. Let the party who is afflicted with the disease wear the charm
hung around his neck, enclosed in a bag of virgin parchment, during the
time that the moon performs one circuit through the twelve signs of the
zodiac, and let it be commenced on the day of the full moon. The wearer
must have full faith in Divine Omnipotence, and repeat the letters of the
talisman in some one of the different directions in which they may be
read, daily.

If it be required to perform a cure upon one at a distance, or without the
afflicted party’s knowledge thereof, write the talisman as above and then
you may perform the cure by scraping out one line of the talisman every
day with a new knife kept for the express purpose. At the scraping out of
each line, say, “So as I destroy the letters of this talisman,
_Abracadabra_, so, by virtue of this sacred name, may all grief and dolor
depart from [here mention the name of the sick person]. So I destroy this
disease. Amen.”

Many have healed divers diseases in this way; the disease wearing, little
by little, away.


_Charms to be used on particular Eves of Feasts and Festivals, to procure
Dreams, Tokens, and other Insights into Futurity._


FEAST OF ST. ANNE’S.

This is a hard trial, but what is not possible to any young lady who
wishes to know her lot in marriage?--that most important change in human
life.

Prepare yourself three days previous to the eve of this female saint, by
living on bread and water and sprigs of parsley, and touch no other thing
whatever, or your labor will be lost. The eve begins at the sixth hour. Go
to bed as soon as convenient, and speak not a word after you once begin to
undress; get into bed, lie on your left side with your head as low as
possible, and repeat the following verse three times:

    St. Anne, in silver clouds descend,
    Prove thyself a female’s friend;
    Be it good or be it harm,
    Let me have knowledge from the charm;
    Be it husbands one, two, three,
    Let me in rotation see;
    And if Fate decrees me four,
    (No good maid could wish far more),
    Let me view them in my dream,
    Fair and clearly to be seen;
    But if the stars decree
    Perpetual virginity,
    Let me sleep on, and dreaming not,
    I shall know my single lot.


MAGIC ROSE.

Gather your rose on the 27th of June; let it be full blown, and as bright
a red as you can get; pluck it between the hours of three and four in the
morning, taking care to have no witness of the transaction; convey it to
your chamber, and hold it over a chafing dish or any convenient utensil
for the purpose, in which there is charcoal and sulphur of brimstone; hold
your rose over the smoke for about five minutes, and you will see it have
a wonderful effect on the flower. Before the rose gets the least cool,
clap it in a sheet of writing paper, on which is written your own name and
that of the man you love best; also the date of the morning star that has
the ascendancy at that time; fold it up and seal it neatly with three
separate seals, then run and bury the parcel at the foot of the tree from
which you gathered the flower. Here let it remain untouched till the 6th
of July; take it up at midnight, go to bed and place it under your pillow,
and you will have a singular and eventful dream before morning, or, at
least, before your usual time of rising. You may keep the rose under your
head three nights without spoiling the charm. When you have done with the
rose and paper be sure to burn them.


CUPID’S NOSEGAY.

On the first night of the new moon in July, take a red rose, a white rose,
a yellow flower, a blue one, a sprig of rue and rosemary, and nine blades
of long grass; bind all together with a lock of your own hair; kill a
white pigeon, sprinkle the nosegay with the blood from the heart, and some
common salt; wrap the flowers in a white handkerchief, and lay it under
your head, on the pillow, when you go to rest; and, before morning, you
will see your fate as clear as if you had your nativity cast by the best
astrologer in the world; not only in respect to love, lovers, or marriage,
but in the other most important affairs of your life. Storms, in this
dream, foretell great trouble; and graves or churchyards are fatal tokens,
and so is climbing steep and dangerous places.


LOVE’S CORDIAL.

_To be tried the Third Night of a New Moon._

Take brandy, rum, gin, wine and the oil of amber, of each a teaspoonful; a
teaspoonful of cream, and three of spring water; drink it as you get into
bed; repeat--

    This mixture of love I take for my potion,
    That I of my destiny may have a notion;
    Cupid befriend me, new moon be kind,
    And show unto me the fate that’s designed.

You will dream of drink, and, according to the quality or manner of it
being presented, you may tell the condition to which you will rise or fall
by marriage. Water is poverty; and, if you dream of a drunken man, it is
ominous that you will have a drunken mate. If you dream of drinking too
much, you will fall, at a future period, into that sad error yourself,
without great care; and what is a worse sight than an inebriated female?
She cannot guard her own honor, ruins her own and family’s substance, and
often clothes herself with rags. Trouble is often used as an excuse for
this vicious habit; but it gives more trouble than it takes away.


THE NINE KEYS.

Get nine small keys; they must all be your own by begging or purchase
(borrowing will not do, nor must you tell what you want them for); plait a
three-plaited band of your own hair, and tie them together, fastening the
ends with nine knots; fasten them with one of your garters to your left
wrist on going to bed, and bind the other garter around your head; then
say--

    St. Peter, take it not amiss,
    To try your favor I’ve done this;
    You are the ruler of the keys,
    Favor me, then, if you please:
    Let me then your influence prove,
    And see my dear and wedded love.

This must be done on the eve of St. Peter’s, and is an old charm used by
the maidens of Rome in ancient times, who put great faith in it.


THE WITCHES’ CHAIN.

Let three young women join in making a long chain, about a yard will do,
of Christmas juniper, and mistletoe berries; and at the end of every link
put an oak acorn. Exactly before midnight let them assemble in a room by
themselves, where no one can disturb them; leave a window open, and take
the key out of the key-hole and hang it over the chimney-piece; have a
good fire, and place in the midst of it a long thinnish log of wood, well
sprinkled with oil, salt and fresh mould; then wrap the chain around it,
each maiden having an equal share in the business; then sit down, and on
her left knee let each maiden have a prayer book, opened at the
matrimonial service. Just as the last acorn is burned, the future husband
will cross the room; each one will see her own proper spouse, but he will
be invisible to the rest of the wakeful virgins. Those that are not to wed
will see a coffin, or some misshapen form, cross the room. Go to bed
instantly, and you will all have remarkable dreams. This must be done
either on a Wednesday or Friday night, but no other.


LOVE LETTERS.

On receiving a love letter that has any particular declaration in it, lay
it wide open; then fold it in nine folds, pin it next to your heart, and
thus wear it till bedtime; then place it in your left hand glove, and lay
it under your head. If you dream of gold, diamonds, or any costly gems,
your lover is true, and means what he says; if of white linen, you will
lose him by death; and if of flowers, he will prove false. If you dream of
his saluting you, he is at present false and means not what he professes,
but only to draw you into a snare.


STRANGE BED.

On going to rest, take a glass of water, half fill it with salt, and drink
it off as quick as you can; do not speak afterwards, but compose yourself
to sleep, and thirst will cause you to dream; which, joined to a strange
bed, will have a true effect.


THE MAGIC RING.

Borrow a wedding ring, concealing the purpose for which you borrow it; but
no widow’s or pretended marriage ring will do--it spoils the charm. Wear
it for three hours at least before you retire to rest, and then suspend it
by a hair off your head, over your pillow; write within a circle
resembling a ring, the sentence from the matrimonial service beginning
with, _With this ring I thee wed_, and around the circle write your own
name at full length, and the figures that stand for your age; place it
under your pillow, and your dream will fully explain whom you are to
marry, and what kind of a fate you will have with them. If your dream is
too confused to remember it, or you do not dream at all, it is a certain
sign you will never be married.


HYMENIAL CHARM.

The night before your nuptials, write your name on a piece of paper, as
small as possible, with the name of your spouse elect, the date of the
wedding day, the month and the year; enclose all in a circle of blood
drawn from one of your fingers, fold the paper into nine folds, place it
in the stocking drawn from your left leg, and place it between your head
and the pillow, and by your dreams of that night you may guess what will
be the fate attending your nuptial life.


FOR A GIRL TO ASCERTAIN IF SHE WILL SOON MARRY.

Find a green pea-pod with exactly nine peas in it, and hang it over the
door of a room or entry-way, without letting any person know that you have
done so; you must then watch the door and see who goes through first; if
it is a bachelor, or an unmarried young man, you will positively be
married before the current crop of peas is disposed of; if it is a woman,
you will have to sigh in single blessedness another year; if a married
man, be careful and not allow your lover too much liberty in his
attentions.


VALENTINE CHARM.

If you receive one of those love tokens, and cannot guess the party who
sent it, or are in any doubt, the following method will explain it to a
certainty: Prick the fourth finger of your left hand, and with a crow
quill write on the back of the valentine the day and hour in which you
were born, and the date of the year; also of the present one, the moon’s
age, and the name of the present morning star, all of which you will find
in the almanac, and the sign into which the sun has entered. Try this on
the first Friday after you receive the valentine, but do not go to bed
till midnight; place the paper in your left shoe, and put it under your
pillow, lie on your left side, and repeat three times:

    St. Valentine, pray condescend
    To be this night a maiden’s friend;
    Let me now my lover see,
    Be he of high or low degree;
    By a sign his station show,
    Be it weal or be it woe.
    Let him come to my bedside,
    And my fortune thus decide.

The young woman will be sure to dream of the identical person who sent the
valentine and be enabled to guess if he is to be her husband.


ACORN CHARM.

This is to be tried on the third day of the months between September and
March. Let any number of young women (not exceeding nine, and minding that
there is an odd one in the company) assemble together, and each string
nine acorns on a separate string, or as many acorns as there are females
in company, but not more; wrap them around a long stick of wood, and place
it in the fire just as the clock strikes twelve at night. Say not a word,
but sit around the fire till all the acorns are consumed; then rake out
the ashes and retire to bed almost directly, repeating:

    May love and marriage be the theme,
    To visit me in this night’s dream:
    Gentle Venus be my friend,
    The image of my lover send.
    Let me see his form and face,
    And his occupation trace;
    By a symbol or a sign,
    Cupid, forward my design.


CHRISTMAS SPELL.

Steep mistletoe berries, to the number of nine, in a mixture of ale, wine,
vinegar and honey; take them on going to bed, and you will dream of your
future lot. A storm in this dream is very bad; it is most likely you will
then marry a sailor, who will suffer shipwreck at sea; but to see either
sun, moon or stars, is an excellent presage; so are flowers; but a coffin
is an index of a disappointment in love.


LENT CHARM.

To be tried on any Friday in Lent, Good Friday excepted, when it is
improper to try anything of the kind, and the mind ought to be more
seriously disposed. Write twelve letters of the common alphabet on
separate pieces of card, also twelve figures, and the same number of blank
cards; then put them in a bag and shake them well, and let each one
present draw one. A blank shows a single life; a figure, intrigue; and a
letter, a happy marriage.


CHARMS TO KNOW WHO YOUR HUSBAND SHALL BE.

_On St. Agnes’ Day._--This falls on the 21st of January. You must prepare
yourself by a twenty-four hours fast, touching nothing but pure spring
water, beginning at midnight on the 20th, to the same again on the 21st;
then go to bed, and mind you sleep by yourself, and do not mention what
you are trying to any one, or it will break the spell. Go to rest on your
left side, and repeat these lines three times:

    St. Agnes, be a friend to me;
    In the gift I ask of thee;
    Let me this night my husband see,

and you will dream of your future spouse. If you see more men than one in
your dream, you will wed two or three times; but if you sleep and dream
not, you will never marry.

_By Bride Cake._--A slice of the bride cake thrice drawn through the
wedding ring, and laid under the head of an unmarried woman, will cause
her to dream of her future husband.

_By the Garter and Stocking._--The party inquiring must live in a
different county from that in which she commonly resides, and, on going to
bed, must knit the left garter about the right legged stocking, letting
the other garter and stocking alone; and as you rehearse the following
verse, at every comma knit a knot:

    This knot I knit, to know the thing I know not yet,
    That I may see, the man that shall my husband be,
          How he goes and what he wears,
          And what he does all days and years.

Accordingly, in a dream he will appear, with the insignia of his trade or
profession.


TO KNOW WHETHER A WOMAN SHALL HAVE THE MAN SHE WISHES.

Get two lemon peels and wear them all day, one in each pocket, and at
night rub the four posts of the bedstead with them; if she is to succeed,
the person will appear in her sleep, and present her with a couple of
lemons; if, not, there is no hope.


TO KNOW IF A WOMAN WITH CHILD WILL HAVE A GIRL OR A BOY.

Write the proper names of the father and the mother, and the month she
conceived with child; add together the letters in these words, and divide
the amount by seven; if the remainder be even, it will be a girl; if
uneven, it will be a boy.


TO KNOW IF A NEW-BORN CHILD SHALL LIVE OR NOT.

Write the proper names of the father and the mother, and of the day the
child was born; count the letters in these words, and to the amount add
twenty-five, and then divide the whole by seven; if the remainder be even
the child shall die, but if uneven, the child shall live.


TO KNOW WHAT FORTUNE YOUR FUTURE HUSBAND WILL HAVE.

Take a walnut, a hazel nut and a nutmeg; grate them together, and mix them
with butter and sugar, and make them up into small pills, of which exactly
nine must be taken on going to bed, and, according to your dreams, so will
be the state of the person you will marry. If a gentleman, your dream will
be of riches; if a clergyman, of white linen; if a lawyer, of darkness; if
a tradesman, of odd noises and tumults; if a soldier or sailor, of thunder
and lightning; if a servant, of rain.


CHARM TO CURE THE HEADACHE.

If the pain be on the _right_ side of the head, make a comb out of the
_right_ horn of a ram; and if the head be combed with it, it will take
away the pain. But if the pain be on the _left_ side of the head, then
make a comb out of the _left_ horn of a ram, and if the head be combed
therewith, it will stop the pain.


CHARM TO MAKE A TREE BEAR FRUIT.

The seeds of roses, with mustard seed, and the foot of a weasel, tied
together in something, and hung among the boughs or branches of a tree
which bears but little fruit, will remedy the defect, and render the tree
amazingly fruitful.


CHARM TO HINDER FROM THE BITE OF A MAD DOG.

The tooth of a mad dog which has bitten any human being, tied in leather
and hung at the shoulder, will preserve and keep the wearer from being
bitten by any mad dog so long as he wears it. It may be worn next to the
skin, or concealed in the clothing.


CHARM AGAINST PERIL BY FIRE OR WATER.

Repeat reverently and with sincere faith, the following words, and you
will be protected in the hour of danger:

“When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through
the rivers, they shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the
fire, thou shalt not be burnt, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.”


CHARM AGAINST FURIOUS BEASTS.

Repeat reverently, and with sincere faith, the following words, and you
will be protected in the hour of danger:

“At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh, neither shalt thou be afraid
of the beasts of the earth.

“For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field, and the beasts
of the field shall be at peace with thee.”


CHARM AGAINST ENEMIES.

Repeat reverently, and with sincere faith, the following words, and you
will be protected in the hour of danger:

“Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid, for the
Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song; he also is become my salvation.

“For the stars of heaven, and the constellations thereof, shall not give
their light; the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon
shall not cause her light to shine.

“And behold, at eventide, trouble; and before the morning he is not; this
is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them that rob us.”


CHARM AGAINST TROUBLE IN GENERAL.

Repeat reverently, and with sincere faith, the following words, and you
shall be protected in the hour of danger:

“He shall deliver thee in six troubles, yea, in seven there shall no evil
touch thee.

“In famine he shall redeem thee from death, and in war from the power of
the sword.

“And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace, and thou shalt
visit thy habitation and shall not err.”




MISCELLANEOUS.


SIGNS AND AUGURIES.

Should you be the subject of a deep depression of spirits, contrary to
your usual constitutional buoyancy and liveliness, it is a sign that you
are about to receive some agreeable intelligence.

If the crown of your head itches more than ordinary, you may expect to be
advanced to a more honorable position in life.

Should the hair on your head come off when combing in greater quantities
than usual, it is a sign that you will soon be subjected to severe
affliction.

If your right eyebrow should immoderately itch, be assured that you are
going to look on a pleasant sight--a long-absent friend, or a
long-estranged but now reconciled lover.

Should your left eyebrow be visited with a tantalizing itching, it is a
sign that you will soon look upon a painful sight--the corpse of a valued
friend, or your lover walking with a favored rival.

A ringing in your right ear, is an augury that you will shortly hear some
pleasant news.

A ringing in your left ear, is a sign that you will in a short time
receive intelligence of a very unpleasant nature.

When your left ear tingles, some one is backbiting you.

A violent itching of the nose, foretells trouble and sorrow to those that
experience it.

An itching of the lips is a sign that some one is speaking disrespectfully
of you.

When you are affected by an itching on the back of your neck, be assured
that either yourself or some one nearly related to you is about to suffer
a violent death.

An itching on the right shoulder, signifies that you will shortly have a
large legacy bequeathed to you.

When you feel an itching sensation on your left shoulder, be sure that you
are about to bear a heavy burden of sorrow and trouble.

If your right elbow joint itches, you may expect shortly to hear some
intelligence that will give you extreme pleasure.

Should you be annoyed by a violent itching on your left elbow joint, you
may be sure that some vexatious disappointment will be experienced by you.

If you feel an itching on the palm of your right hand, you may expect soon
to receive some money which you have been long expecting.

When the palm of your left hand itches, you may expect to be called upon
to pay some money for a debt which you have not personally incurred.

An itching on the spine of your back, is a sign that you will shortly be
called upon to bear a heavy burden of sorrow and trouble.

An itching on your loins, is an indication that you will soon receive an
addition to your family, if married; if single, that you are on the eve of
marriage.

When you are affected with an itching of the belly, expect to be invited
to feast upon a choice collection of savory meats.

When either or both of your thighs itch, be assured that you are about to
change your sleeping apartment.

If you have an itching sensation in your right knee, depend upon it that
you will shortly undergo a remarkable and beneficial change in your
previous course of life, and become religiously inclined.

If a similar sensation prevails in your left knee, you may expect to
undergo a change in your situation of an unfavorable nature.

An itching sensation on the shin, foretells that you will be visited by a
painful and long-continued affliction.

When your ankle joints itch, be sure that you are about to be united to
one whom you love, if single; if married, that your domestic comforts will
be largely increased.

When the sole of your right foot itches, you may feel assured that you are
about to undertake a journey from which you will derive much pleasure and
enjoyment.

Should you experience a similar sensation on the sole of your left foot,
you may expect to be called upon to take a journey of an unpleasant and
melancholy nature.


SIGNS OF SPEEDY MARRIAGE, AND GOOD SUCCESS ATTENDING IT BY SUNDRY SIGNS.

For a woman to have the first and last letters of her christian name the
same with the man’s surname, that makes love to her, denotes a great union
and a generous love.

For a man to have the first and last letters of his christian name the
same with the woman’s surname, denotes the same.

To think of a party on a sudden waking, without any meditation, on a
Friday morning, that before had a place in the affections of the man or
woman, is a demonstration of love or extraordinary friendship.

If a ring accidentally falls off a man’s finger, that is under no
obligation of marriage, and runs directly to the feet of a maid or widow,
it denotes not only that he is in love with the party, but that a sudden
marriage will ensue.

The singing of a robin-red-breast at your window, in the time of
courtship, on a Wednesday, is a sign you shall have the party desired.

If walking abroad with your sweetheart you perceive a pair of pigeons
circle around you, it is a sign of marriage and happiness to ensue, with
much content.

If a hare cross your path on a Saturday morning, it promises happy days,
riches and pleasure.


THE ART OF TELLING FORTUNES BY THE GROUNDS OF A TEA OR COFFEE CUP.

Pour the grounds of coffee or tea into a white cup, shake them well about
in it, so that their particles may cover the whole surface of the cup;
then reverse it into the saucer, that all the superfluous parts may be
drained off and the figures required for fortune telling be formed. The
person that acts the fortune teller must always bend his thoughts upon him
or her that wishes to have their fortune told, and upon their rank and
profession, in order to give plausibility to their predictions. It is not
to be expected, upon taking up the cup, that the figures will be
accurately represented as they are in cards, but it is quite sufficient if
they bear some resemblance to any of the thirty-two emblems; and the more
fertile the fancy shall be of the person that inspects the cup, the more
he will discover in it. In other respects, every one who takes pleasure in
this amusement must himself be a judge, under what circumstances he is to
make changes in point of time, speaking just as it suits, in the present,
the past, or the future; in the same manner their ingenuity ought to
direct them when to speak more or less pointedly and detrimentally with
regard to sex.

_The Roads_, or serpentine lines, indicate ways; if they are severed with
clouds, and consequently in the thick, they are said to be infallible
marks of many past or future reverses. But if they appear in the clear and
serene, are the surest token of some fortunate change near at hand;
encompassed with many points or dots, they signify an accidental gain of
money, likewise long life.

_The Ring_ signifies marriage; if a letter is near it, it denotes to the
person that has his fortune told the initial of the name of the party to
be married. If the ring is in the clear, it portends happy and lucrative
friendship. Surrounded with clouds, denotes that the party is to use
precaution in the friendship he is about to contract, lest he should be
insidiously deceived; but it is most inauspicious if the ring appears at
the bottom of the cup, as it forebodes an entire separation from the
beloved object.

_The Leaf of Clover_ is a lucky sign. Its different position in the cup
alone makes the difference; on the top, it shows that the good fortune is
not far distant; but it is subject to delay if it is in the middle or at
the bottom. Should clouds surround it, it shows that much disagreeableness
will attend the good fortune; in the clear, it prognosticates serene and
undisturbed happiness.

_The Anchor_, the emblem of hope and commerce, implies successful business
carried on by water or land, if on the bottom of the cup; at the top and
in the clear part, it shows constant love and unshaken fidelity. In the
thick and cloudy parts it also denotes love, but tinctured with
inconstancy.

_The Serpent_, always the emblem of falsehood and enmity, is likewise the
general sign of an enemy. On the top, or in the middle of the cup, it
promises to the consulting party the triumph which he desires over his
enemy; but he will not obtain it so easily if the serpent be in the thick
and cloudy part. By the letter which appears near the emblem, the enemy
may be easily guessed, as it makes the initial of his name.

_The Letter._--By letters we communicate to our friends either pleasant or
unpleasant news, and such is the case here; if this emblem is in the clear
part, it denotes the speedy arrival of a considerable remittance of money,
but hemmed in by clouds it is quite the contrary, and forebodes some
melancholy or bad tidings, a loss or some other sinister accident. If it
be in the clear, and accompanied by a heart, lovers may expect a letter,
which secures the party the possession of the beloved object; but in the
thick, it denotes a refusal.

_The Coffin_, the emblem of death, prognosticates the same thing here, or
at least a long and tedious illness; if it be in the thick, at the top of
the cup, it signifies considerable estate left to the party by some rich
relation; in the same manner at the bottom, it shows that the deceased is
not so nearly related to the consulting party.

_The Star_ denotes happiness if in the clear, and at the top of the cup;
clouded, or in the thick, it signifies long life, though exposed to
various troubles. If dots are about it, it foretells great fortune,
wealth, high respectability, &c. Several stars denote so many good and
happy children, but surrounded with dashes shows that the person’s
children will cause him or her grief and vexation in old age, and should
be prevented by giving them a good education in time.

_The Dog_, being at all times the emblem of fidelity or envy, has a
two-fold meaning here. At the top, in the clear, it signifies true and
faithful friends, but if his image be surrounded with clouds and dashes,
it shows that those whom you take for your friends are not to be depended
on; but if the dog be at the bottom of the cup, you have to dread the
effects of extreme envy or jealousy.

_The Lily._--If this emblem be at the top or in the middle of the cup, it
signifies that the consulting party either has or will have a virtuous
spouse; if at the bottom, it denotes quite the reverse. In the clear, the
lily further betokens along and happy life; if clouded or in the thick, it
portends trouble and vexation, especially on the part of one’s relations.

_The Cross_, be it one or more, generally predicts adversities. Its
position varies, and so do the circumstances. If it be at the top, and in
the clear, it shows that the misfortunes of the party will soon be at an
end, or that he will easily get over them; but if it appears in the
middle, at the bottom, in the thick, the party must expect many severe
trials; if it appears with dots, either in the clear or the thick, it
promises a speedy change in one’s sorrow.

_The Clouds._--If they be more light than dark, expect good results from
wishing; but if black, you must give it up. Surrounded with dots, they
imply success in trade and all undertakings; but, the brighter they are,
the greater will be the happiness.

_The Sun._--An emblem of the greatest luck and happiness if in the clear;
but in the thick it bodes much sadness; surrounded by dots or dashes,
denotes that an altercation will speedily take place.

_The Moon_, if it appears in the clear, denotes high honors; in the dark
or thick part, it implies sadness, which will, however, pass without great
prejudice. But if it be at the bottom of the cup, the consulting party
will be fortunate, both on land and water.

_Mountains._--If it represents only one mountain, it indicates the favor
of people of high rank; but several of them, especially in the thick, are
signs of powerful enemies; in the clear, they signify the contrary, or
friends in high life who are endeavoring to promote the welfare of the
consulting party.

_Trees._--One tree only, be it in the clear or thick part, points out
lasting good health; several trees denote that your wish will be
accomplished. If they are encompassed with dashes, it is a token that your
fortune is in its blossom, and will require some time to bring it to
maturity. If accompanied by dots, it is a sign that you will make your
fortune in the country where you reside.

_Child._--In the clear part, it bespeaks innocent intercourse between the
consultor and another person; in the thick part, excess in love affairs,
attended with great expenses; at the bottom of the cup, it denotes the
consequences of amorous excesses.

_The Pedestrian_ denotes, in general, to a merchant, good business,
pleasant news and the recovery of lost things. It also signifies that the
consulting party will soon enlist, or get some new engagement.

_The Rider_ denotes good news from abroad in money matters, a good
situation in a foreign country, or good prospects. He that doubts his
fortune is promised a lasting one by this emblem.

_Woman_ signifies much joy in general. If in the clear, this emblem has a
more favorable signification than in the thick; there it shows very great
happiness; here, a great deal of jealousy. If dots surround the image, it
explains the lady’s great wealth. The different positions in the cup show,
at the top and in the middle, that you will be in love with a virgin; but
at the bottom, it denotes she is a widow.

_The Mouse._--As this animal lives by stealth, it is also an emblem here
of theft and robbery; if it be in the clear, it shows you will get again
what you lost, in a wonderful manner; but if it appears in the thick, you
may renounce this hope.


HOW TO READ YOUR FORTUNE BY THE WHITE OF AN EGG.

Break a new-laid egg, and, carefully separating the yolk from the white,
drop the latter into a large tumbler half full of water; place this,
uncovered, in some dry place and let it remain untouched for
four-and-twenty hours, by which time the white of the egg will have formed
itself into various figures--rounds, squares, ovals, animals, trees,
crosses, &c.--which are to be interpreted in the same manner as those
formed by the coffee-grounds. Of course, the more whites there are in the
glass, the more figures there will be. This is a very pretty experiment,
and much practised by the young Scotch maidens, who, however, believe it
to have more efficacy when tried on either Midsummer Eve or Hallowe’en
(31st October).


HOW TO WRITE LOVE-LETTERS SECRETLY, SO THAT THEY MAY NOT BE DISCOVERED.

Take a sheet of white paper and double it in the middle, and cut holes
through both the half sheets; let the holes be cut like a pane of glass,
or other forms that you may fancy; then with a pin prick two little holes
at each end and cut your paper in two halves; give one half to your friend
to whom you intend to write, lay your cut paper upon a half sheet of
writing paper, and stick two pins in these holes so that it cannot stir;
then, through these holes that you cut, write your mind to your friend.
When you have done, take off your paper holes again, and then write some
other idle words, both before and after your lines, but if they were
written to make some little sense, it would carry the less suspicion; then
seal it up and send it. When your friend has received it, he must lay his
paper on the same, putting pins into the pin-holes, and then he can read
nothing but your mind that you write, for all the rest of the lines are
covered.

_Another._--Write what you please of a letter on one side of a sheet of
letter paper with common ink; then turn your paper and write on the other
side with milk that which you would have secret, and let it dry; but this
must be written with a clean pen. Now, when you read it, you must hold
that side which is written with ink to the fire, and the milky letters
will then show bluish on the other side.




THE SILENT LANGUAGE. HOW TO CONVERSE WITH ANY PERSON WITHOUT SPEAKING A
WORD.


This art is performed on your hands and fingers, by the twenty-four
letters of the alphabet, which, having learned, you must spell the words
you intend your friend should know. The letters are very easily learned
and as easily remembered. You must understand that most of the letters are
upon the left hand and made with the fingers of the right and left hand;
the forefinger of your right hand you point to every letter, but sometimes
that and the two next fingers make several letters. The vowels are very
easy to remember, they being the tops or ends of your five fingers on your
left hand, and Y is formed in the palm of your left hand, thus:

    The end of the thumb is                               =A=
    The end of the fore finger                            =E=
    The end of the middle finger                          =I=
    The end of the ring finger                            =O=
    The end of the little finger                          =U=
    The table, or palm of the hand                        =Y=
    One finger on the left thumb                          =B=
    Two fingers on the left thumb                         =C=
    Three fingers on the left thumb                       =D=
    Your two fingers laid together                        =F=
    Thumb, your fists together                            =G=
    Stroke the palm of both hands together                =H=
    Your fore finger upon the left wrist                  =K=
    One finger on the back of the left hand               =L=
    Three fingers on the same                             =M=
    Two fingers on the same                               =N=
    Clench your left hand, or fist                        =O=
    Clench your right hand                                =P=
    Link your little fingers together                     =Q=
    The backs of your hands together                      =R=
    The end of your fore finger to the
      middle joint of the other fore finger               =S=
    Two fingers upon the little finger of the left hand   =T=
    Two fingers across                                    =X=
    Give two snaps with your fingers                      =Z=

Practice a few times and you will soon be perfect. Several motions
represent the likeness of the letter; as, one finger on the back of the
hand is like L, two fingers like N, three like M. The fore finger to the
middle joint of the other fore finger is like T; two fingers across is
like X; likewise B, C, D, are easily remembered; one finger on the left
thumb is B, two fingers C, three fingers D. But you must always remember
to give a snap with the fingers between the words, so that your friend may
distinguish one word from another. If you are in company, and think some
others understand you, that you would not have, it will be necessary to
change the vowels to some other part of the hand, and then none but your
friend that knows it can understand you. Suppose you would say to a lady
in a large company, “Madam, I am your humble servant.” It is done thus:

  Lay three fingers on the back of your hand                         =M=
  Put your finger to the end of your left thumb                      =A=
  Three fingers upon your left thumb                                 =D=
  Your finger again to the thumb                                     =A=
  Three fingers again to the back of your hand                       =M=
    And give a snap with your fingers as a
        sign the word is spelt.
  Then point to the end of your middle finger                        =I=
    Then snap your fingers.
  Then point to the end of your thumb                                =A=
  Three fingers on the back of your hand                             =M=
    Then snap your fingers.
  Then point to the palm of your left hand                           =Y=
  Then point to the end of your ring finger                          =O=
  Then point to the end of your little finger                        =U=
  Then link your little fingers together                             =R=
    Then snap your fingers.
  Stroke the palms of your hands together                            =H=
  Point to the end of your little finger                             =U=
  Put three fingers on the back of your hand                         =M=
  One finger on the thumb                                            =B=
  One finger on the back of your hand                                =L=
  Point to the end of your fore finger                               =E=
    Then snap your fingers.
  Put the backs of your hands together                               =S=
  Point to the end of your fore finger                               =E=
  Link your little fingers together                                  =R=
  Point to the end of your little finger                             =V=
  Point to the end of the thumb                                      =A=
  Lay two fingers on the back of your hand                           =N=
  Point the fore finger to the middle joint of the other fore finger =T=
    Then snap your fingers.

And thus you may discourse upon any subject; if you practice it often you
will soon learn to do it very quick, even faster than you can write.




PREDICTIONS OF THE WEATHER, ATMOSPHERIC CHANGES, &c.


Should the horizon in the north wear a ruddy appearance in the evening,
stormy and boisterous weather may be expected.

If the clouds in the south are ruddy in the evening, sunshiny and rainy
weather will prevail for some time afterward.

When the face of the moon is partially obscured by a light, thin vapor,
rain will shortly follow.

When the rays from the sun at midday are more than ordinarily dazzling,
rainy weather will shortly succeed.

In summertime, when the swallows fly near to the ground, rainy weather
will assuredly soon follow.

The shrill crowing of a cock during rainy weather, is a sign that drought
will speedily prevail.

When the smoke from the chimney falls down toward the ground, instead of
rising upward, it is a sign that rainy weather will soon follow.

If on a foggy morning in summer the fog rises upward, it will be a fine
day; if the fog falls to the ground, it will be wet.

When, in summertime, you see the cattle grazing in a field gathering
together in groups, be assured that a thunderstorm is approaching.

When you see the fowls in a farmyard flocking together under some covert,
be assured that ungenial weather is about to succeed.

When the crows, in flying over your head, make an extraordinary and
discordant cawing, rain will come on shortly.

When you see your dog or cat more than ordinarily restless, frisking about
the house in all directions, be assured that some boisterous weather will
shortly follow.

In rainy weather, when you hear the chirping of the sparrows on the
housetop more shrill than usual, it is a sign that clear and dry weather
will quickly succeed.

When you see a vapory fluid resting upon a stagnant pool in the fore part
of the day, you may conclude that rainy weather will shortly come on.
Should the vapor ascend and clear away, a continued drought may be
anticipated.

In summer, when the atmosphere is dense and heavy, and there is scarcely a
breath of air, be assured that a thunderstorm is coming on.

When the firmament is lighted up with meteoric phenomena, such as falling
stars, globes of fire, &c., changeable and boisterous weather may be
expected to prevail.

When the rising sun appears like a solid mass of fervent heated metal, and
no rays appear to emanate therefrom, fine and dry weather may be
confidently anticipated.

When the sun sets in a halo of ruddy brightness, genial and bright weather
may be fully relied on for the coming day.

When the moon appears of a ruddy hue, stormy and boisterous weather may be
expected to follow.

When the stars appear of a sparkling brightness, fine and genial weather
may be expected to prevail for some time. Should the stars appear obscure
and dim, changeable and rainy weather may be anticipated.

The luminous appearance of the Aurora Borealis, or Northern Lights, in the
firmament, foretells the approach of stormy and boisterous weather.

When the setting sun, in the autumn or winter seasons, appears ruddy, it
is a sign that high and boisterous winds may be expected to blow from the
north and northwest. When the sun at its rising, in the autumn or winter
seasons, appears ruddy, it foretells that high and boisterous winds may be
anticipated to blow from the south and southeast.

When seabirds are observed flocking toward the shore, storms and tempests
may be confidently expected.

When in the early autumn season the migratory birds are seen flocking
together and taking their departure, it is a certain sign that rough and
boisterous weather is approaching and that a severe winter may be
anticipated.

When the doves around a dovecote make a more than ordinary cooing, and
frequently pass in and out of their cote, it is a sign that a change of
weather is near.

When the robin approaches your habitation, it is a sign that wintry
weather will shortly prevail.

When there is a thick vapory mist resting on the tops of high hills in the
morning and remains there during the day, it is a sign that wet and
ungenial weather may be anticipated. Should the mist eventually rise
upward and be evaporated by the sun’s rays, a return to fine dry weather
may be looked for; if, however, the mist falls down into the valley, a
continuation of wet weather will prevail.

If, in taking a walk, you should see a single magpie, it is a bad omen,
especially if it should fly past you to the left hand; but, if it should
pass you to the right hand, the good will counterbalance the bad. Should
you see two magpies together, expect to hear of something to your
advantage--a proposal of marriage, if single; or a legacy of money
bequeathed to you. Should the magpies fly past you together, to your right
hand, your own marriage, or the marriage of some one nearly related to
you, will occur in a short time. The seeing of several magpies together is
considered a very fortunate omen.

May is considered an unlucky month to marry in, therefore avoid doing so
if possible. If you can catch a snail by the horns on the first of May and
throw it over your shoulder, you will be lucky throughout the year. If
you place one on a slate on that day, it will describe by its turnings the
initials of your future partner’s name.

If a young man or young woman, on going up a flight of stairs, should
stumble in the middle of the flight, it is a sign that his or her marriage
will take place in a short time; if the stumbling should be near the top
of the stairs, then his or her marriage will be immediately consummated.

If a marriage procession, on proceeding to church or chapel, should happen
to meet a funeral procession, it is considered an unlucky omen to the
expectant bride; if, on returning after the solemnization of the rite, a
funeral procession should pass the bridal party, it is an unfavorable sign
to the bridegroom.

If a young person, when seated at the tea-table, should observe one or
more stalks of the tea plant in the newly poured out cup, and if, on
stirring the tea and holding the spoon in the middle of the liquid, the
stalk or stalks should come close to the spoon handle, it is a token that
he or she will be soon married.

When the house dog is unusually restless, and howls dismally in the night
time, it is a sign that sickness and death are about to visit the family
to whom the dog belongs.

When the wick of your candle shows a bright spark in the midst of the
flame, it is a sign that a long absent friend is about to visit you.

When the ribs of your fire grate are more than usual covered with flakes
of soot, it is a sign that a stranger is about to visit your habitation.




DIVINATION BY THE BIRDS OF THE AIR AND THE BEASTS OF THE FIELD.


It hath been duly observed, by the learned in all ages of the world, that
our all-wise and beneficent Creator originally implanted in the frame of
nature a means whereby mankind may attain to the knowledge of such future
contingencies as concern their welfare and happiness; and, more
especially, since we observe, even in the brute creation, that even the
most inconsiderable creatures upon the earth are more or less endowed with
a gift of foreknowledge. Thus the industrious bee, and laborious ant, lay
in their summer store, in order to supply the necessary wants of an
inclement winter, which they foreknow is yet to come; yet, even of all the
whole race of reptiles, the ant, the spider, and the bee, appear to be
endowed with the greatest share of sagacity. The wisdom of the ants is
conspicuous in forming themselves into a kind of republic and therein
observing, as it were, their own peculiar laws and policies; but the
cunning of the spider seems to exceed that of most other insects; its
various artifices to ensnare its prey is no less remarkable than its
contrivance of a cell or retreat behind its web, where it feasts upon its
game in safety and conceals the fragments of those carcasses it has
devoured, without exposing to public view the least remains of its
barbarity, which might tend to distinguish its place of abode, or create
the least jealousy in any sect, that their enemy was near. Into what
history can we look to find people who are governed by laws equal to what
we observe in the republic of bees? What experience can we desire beyond
what we observe in the cunning spider, to teach us to guard against the
artifices of those who lay snares to catch the thoughtless and unwary? or
what can exceed the indefatigable ant, in teaching us lessons of frugality
and industry?

The badger, the hedgehog and the mole also provide themselves a magazine
of plants and herbs, which they foreknow will enable them to lie concealed
in their holes during the hard frosts of winter, contented with their
prison, which affords them safety. Their holes are constructed with
amazing art, and generally have two apertures, that in case one should be
beset by an enemy, they may escape by the other. The doublings by the
hare, the tricks of the fox to escape the hounds, are also astonishing
indications of foresight and sagacity. The feathered race are likewise
endowed with a similar faculty and often foretell an approaching storm a
considerable time before it appears, by retiring in flocks to their holes
and hiding places for shelter and protection. The birds of passage seem to
inherit this gift in a remarkable degree, for they assemble together in
prodigious flocks at an appointed hour, and take their leave before the
approach of winter; which they see will destroy the flies and insects, as
they feed on nothing else. And it is no less extraordinary than true, that
these birds return as early as the sun brings forth this class of insects
into new life, and they have also the sagacity to find out and possess
their old nests and habitations. The wise, provident forecast for
self-preservation and safety is even extended to the innumerable
inhabitants of the immense ocean, where we see the fishes, pressed by
unceasing hunger, indiscriminately prey upon one another, the large upon
the small, even of its own species; whence the smaller fish in regular
gradations, when in danger of being devoured, fly for an asylum to the
shallow waters, where they know their enemy either cannot or dare not come
to pursue them. And this pursuit of one species of fish after another, is
by no means confined to a single region, for we find shoals of them
pursuing one another, from the vicinity of the pole even down to the
equator, and thus the cod from the banks of the Newfoundland pursues the
whiting, which flies before it, even to the southern shores of Spain. It
is astonishing also, that herrings, which appear to generate towards the
north of Scotland, regularly make their way once a year to the British
Channel. Their voyage is conducted with the utmost regularity, and the
time of their departure is fixed from the month of June to August. They
always assemble together before they set out and no stragglers are ever
found from the general body. It is impossible to assign any cause for this
emigration, but it doubtless proceeds from the same instinctive impulse
with which all orders of animated nature are more or less imbued.

Now observe, that when you go out of your house to do or transact any kind
of business, and in the way you do see a man, or a bird going or flying,
so that either of them do set themselves before you on your right hand,
that is a good signification in reference to your business; but when you
shall go out of your house on any business whatsoever, and shall see a
bird or a man before you on the left side of you, it is an ill sign in
reference to your said business. When either a man or a bird shall thus
pass before you, coming from the right side of you and bending towards the
left, goeth out of your sight, that is a good sign concerning your
business. When you do find a man going, or a bird flying, and then he
rests himself before you on your right side, and you seeing it, this is
also a good sign of success in your business. But when you see a man or a
bird bending from your right side to your left, it is an ill sign
concerning your business; when a man or a bird comes behind you, and goes
faster than you, but before he cometh at you he rests, or the same before
you came at him, he rests, and you seeing him on your right side, it is to
you a good sign. But when this happens on the left side, it is an evil
sign. When a man or a bird, coming from your left side, and passing to the
right, goeth out of your sight without resting, it is a good sign. If a
man or bird, coming from your right hand, passing behind your back to the
left, and you see him resting anywhere, this is an evil sign. All the
auspicia which first happeneth in the beginning of any business, ought not
to be taken notice of, as if in the beginning of any work you find that
rats have been gnawing your clothes, then insist upon your undertakings.
If, on going out of your house, you happen to stumble on the threshold, or
if in the way you happen to dash your foot against anything, then forbear
your journey; if any ill omen ever happens at the beginning of your
business, then put it off for a while, lest you be completely disappointed
therein. If a crow, raven or a jackdaw do croak over any person, it doth
show much evil of a serious nature. The magpie informs you that you will
soon hear news and come into company; but whether such news be good or
bad, observe whether it comes from the right hand or the left. The screech
owl is always unfortunate, for, about the 17th Oct., 1807, Grantham church
was a repository for a number of owls every evening, for about one month,
when it followed that, before that time next year, the same church was
actually robbed of all its plate and money, to a large amount, by a gang
of villains, in the dead of the night, to the great loss and detriment of
the whole parish. If you meet sparrows, it is unfortunate, except for
love. Flies indicate importunity and impudent affronts; cocks meeting
you, or crowing against your house, inform you of visitors coming and
success in your journeys and business. If you meet a hare, a mule, or a
hog, it is an ill omen; to meet horses in a carriage is good, but if you
meet an ass, expect trouble; while to meet sheep and goats is very good
and indicates prosperity in your affairs; if you either meet a dog or
oxen, you may expect the same success, for it is good; mice indicate that
you will soon meet with danger; locusts making a stand in any place,
hindereth a person from their wishes and is an ill omen; on the contrary,
grasshoppers promote a journey and foretell a good event of things. The
spider weaving a line downwards, signifies hope of money to come; as also
the ants having a nest near your door is good, because they know how to
provide for themselves, and portend security and riches. If you meet with
a snake, take care of an ill-tongued enemy; a viper signifies lewd women
and wicked children; an eel shows a man that is displeased with everybody.
But of all the various auspices and omens, there is none more effectual
and potent than man, none that doth signify the truth more clearly. You
must, therefore, diligently note and duly observe the condition of that
man you meet, or that meeteth you; his age, profession, station, gesture,
motion, exercise, complexion, habit, name, words, speech, &c.; for, seeing
there are in all other animals so many discoveries or presages, yet those
are all more efficacious and clear which are infused into the soul of man.




PHYSIOGNOMY.


_Strength of Body_ is shown by stiff hair, large bones, firm and robust
limbs, short muscular neck, firm and erect carriage, head broad and high,
forehead short and peaked, bristly hair, large feet, harsh unequal voice
and florid complexion.

_Weakness of Body_ is distinguished by a small, ill-proportioned head,
narrow shoulders, soft skin and pale complexion.

_Long Life_ is indicated by strong teeth, sanguine temperament, middle
size, large, deep and ruddy lines in the hand, large muscles, stooping
shoulders, full chest, firm flesh, clear complexion, slow growth, wide
ears and large eyelids.

_Short Life_ may be inferred from a thick tongue, the appearance of the
molars before the age of puberty, thin uneven teeth, confused lines in the
hand, and quick but small growth.

_Intellect_ is denoted by thin skin, middle stature, bright eyes, fair
complexion, straight and fine hair, eyebrows joined, affable manner,
moderation in mirth, and the temples slightly concave.

_A Dunce_ may be known by a swollen neck, plump arms, sides and loins, a
round head, fleshy forehead, pale eyes, dull, heavy look, small joints,
snuffling nostrils, proneness to laughter, little hands, ill-proportioned
head, either too large or too small, blubber lips, short fingers and thick
legs.

_Fortitude_ is promised from a wide mouth, sonorous voice, slow, grave and
always equal, upright posture, large, open, steadfast eyes, the hair high
above the forehead, the head much compressed or flattened, the forehead
square and high, the extremities large and robust, the neck firm though
not fleshy, large chest, dark complexion.

_Intrepidity_ often resides in a small body, with ruddy countenance,
frowning eyebrows, small mouth, prominent nose and large lines in the
hand.

_Boldness_ is characterised by a prominent mouth, rugged appearance, rough
forehead, arched eyebrows, large nostrils and teeth, short neck, strong
arms, ample chest, square shoulders and stern countenance.

_Timidity_ resides where we find a concave neck, pale color, weak eyes,
soft hair, plump breast, shrill voice, small mouth, thin lips, broad, thin
hands and small shambling feet.

_Prudence_ is generally distinguished by a head which is flat on the
sides, broad, square forehead, slightly concave in the middle, soft voice,
broad chest, thin hair, bright eyes, large ears, aquiline nose.

_Irascibility_ may be seen in an erect carriage, clear skin, solemn voice,
open nostrils, moist temples with superficial veins, thick neck, quick
pace, bloodshot eyes, large unequal teeth.

_Melancholy_ is denoted by a wrinkled face, dejected eyes, slow pace,
fixed look and deliberate respiration.

_Amorousness_ shows a fair slender face, hair exuberant on head, face and
limbs, moist shining eyes, wide nostrils, prominent lips.

_Gaiety_ shows a rosy agreeable countenance, a musical voice, an agile
body and soft flesh.

_Envy_ appears with a wrinkled forehead, frowning, dejected look, pale
countenance and dry, rough skin.

_Gentleness_ may be distinguished by a soft and moist palm, frequent
shutting of the eyes, soft movement, slow speech, fine hair.

_Bashfulness_ may be discovered by moist half-closed eyes, moderate pace,
slow speech, blushing countenance.

_Sobriety_ is accompanied by equal respiration, regular features, easy
carriage and sedate manners.

_Mental Strength_ is signified by straight hair, a small body, shining
eyes, grave intense voice, stout muscular body, broad back and shoulders.

_Good Memory_ is common in those persons who are small, yet better formed
in the upper than the lower parts, delicate skin, inclined to baldness,
crooked nose, thick teeth, large ears.

_Bad Memory_ is observable in persons who are larger in their superior
than inferior parts, hairy hands and body, coarse skin.

_Good Sight_ is enjoyed by those persons who have black, thick, straight
eyelashes, large bushy eyebrows.

_Hearing_ is most acute in those whose ears are well furnished with
cartilage, well channelled and hairy.

_Smelling_ is most perfect in those who have large noses, descending very
near the mouth, neither too moist nor too dry.

_Tasting_ is dainty in such as have a spongy, soft tongue, well moistened
with saliva.

_Delicacy of Touch_ is remarked in those who have sensitive nerves, soft
skin, moderately warm and dry.




THE PLEASURES OF DREAMING.


    “We always dream; the life of man’s a dream,
    In which fresh tumults agitate his breast,
    Till the kind hand of death unbolts the bars
    Which clog the noble and aspiring soul,
    Then, then we truly wake.”--HIGGINS.

                      --“Shroud thy hated light,
    Thou rising sun; nor summon with such speed,
    The o’erlabored world to toils of a new day;
    Why, flatter’d mortals, will you wake to cares,
    When sleep, in kind delusion, may divert
    Your pensive mind with pleasing images?
    A dream sets free the captive; can restore
    Lost fields to soldiers; to wreck’d merchants wealth.
    In dreams the exile visits his sweet home.
    And o’er the sparkling bowl relates at large
    His past distresses to his wondering friends.
    The lover, too, the sad forsaken lover.
    May dream, and feign the falsest mistress true.”--TATE.

It has been truthfully observed, that half the life of even the most
miserable is as unruffled as that of the most happy of men, for that
portion is spent in sleep--in the enjoyment of quiet repose--in peace and
in security. A quiet reliance upon Providence, a conscience void of
offence, temperance and regularity, every person can command, and these
are the only requisites to secure sound and pleasant sleep and pleasant
dreams. In these every one has happy moments--and in this life we cannot
expect more than transient gleams of sunshine--a mixture of sours and
sweets, whose agreeable or distasteful flavor depends much more upon
ourselves than is commonly imagined.

Addison, the virtuous and religious Addison; often dwells in his writings
upon dreams--published many of his stories as the result of
them--sometimes treated of them seriously and earnestly, and at others
brought all his powers of ridicule into play to expose their absurdity.
“Dreams,” he says, “are an instance of that agility and perfection which
is natural to the faculties of the mind, where they are disengaged from
the body. The soul is clogged and retarded in her operations when she acts
in conjunction with a companion that is so heavy and unwieldy in her
motions. But in dreams it is wonderful to observe with what sprightliness
and alacrity she exerts herself. The flow of speech makes unpremeditated
harangues, or converses readily in languages that they are but little
acquainted with. The grave abound in pleasantries, the dull in repartee
and points of wit. There is not a more painful action of the mind than
invention; yet in dreams it works with that ease and activity that we are
not sensible of when the faculty is employed. For instance, I believe
every one, some time or other, dreams that he is reading papers, books, or
letters, in which case the invention prompts so readily that the mind is
imposed upon, and mistakes its own suggestions for the compositions of
another.” In another part of the same paper he gives the two following
problems: “Supposing a man, always happy in his dreams and miserable in
his waking thoughts, and that his life was equally divided between
them--whether he would be more happy or miserable? Were a man a king in
his dreams and a beggar awake, and dreamed as consequentially, and in
continued unbroken schemes, as he thinks when awake--whether he would be
in reality a king or a beggar, or rather, whether he would not be both?”

Addison was of opinion that some useful instruction might be derived even
from a dream: “Since we have so little time to spare, that none of it may
be lost, I see no reason why we should neglect to examine those imaginary
scenes we are presented with in sleep, only because they have less reality
in them than our waking meditation. A traveler would bring his judgment in
question, who should despise the directions of his map for want of real
roads in it, because here stands a dot instead of a town, or a cipher
instead of a city, and it must be a long day’s journey to travel through
two or three inches. Fancy in dreams gives us much such another landscape
of life as that does of countries, and though its appearance may seem
strangely jumbled together, we may often observe such traces and footsteps
of noble thoughts, as, if carefully pursued, might lead us into proper
course of action. There is so much rapture and ecstacy in our fancied
misery, that though the inactivity of the body has given occasion for
calling sleep the image of death, the briskness of the fancy affords us a
strong intimation of something within us that can never die.”

Addison, however, could treat with a happy ridicule all those everyday
dreams with which most persons are so familiar and gives several cases
from imaginary correspondents, some dissatisfied with the non-fulfilment
of their nocturnal visions, and others annoyed at being disturbed in the
midst of their delightful reveries. “I have received,” says Addison,
“numerous complaints from several delicious dreamers, desiring me to
invent some method of silencing those noisy slaves, whose occupations lead
them to take their early rounds about the city in the morning, doing a
deal of mischief and working strange confusion in the affairs of its
inhabitants. Several monarchs have done me the honor to acquaint me, how
often they have been shook from their respective thrones by the rattling
of a coach or by the rumbling of a wheelbarrow; and many private
gentlemen, I find, have been bawled out of vast estates by fellows not
worth three-pence. A fair lady was just upon the point of being married to
a young, rich, handsome, ingenious nobleman, when an impertinent tinker,
passing by, forbade the banns; and a hopeful youth, who had been newly
advanced to great honor and preferment, was forced by a neighboring
cobbler to resign all for an old song. It has been represented to me that
those inconsiderate rascals do nothing but go about dissolving of
marriages, and spoiling of fortunes, impoverishing rich, and ruining great
people, interrupting beauties in the midst of their conquests and generals
in the course of their victories; a boisterous peripatetic hardly goes
through a street without waking half a dozen kings and princes to open
their shops, or clean shoes, frequently transforming sceptres into
paring-shovels and proclamations into bills. I have by me a letter from a
young statesman, who in five or six hours came to be Emperor of Europe,
after which he made war upon the Great Turk, routed him horse and foot,
and was crowned lord of the universe in Constantinople; the conclusion of
all his successes is that, on the twelfth instant, about seven in the
morning, his Imperial Majesty was deposed by a chimney sweeper. On the
other hand, I have epistolary testimonies of gratitude from many miserable
people, who owe to this clamorous tribe frequent deliverance from great
misfortunes. A small coalman, by waking one of these distressed gentlemen,
saved him from ten years’ imprisonment; an honest watchman, bidding a loud
good-morrow to another, freed him from the notice of many potent enemies
and brought all their designs against him to nothing. A certain
valetudinarian confesses he has often been cured of a sore throat by the
hoarseness of a carman and relieved from a fit of the gout by the sound of
old shoes.

“A citizen who is waked by one of these criers, may regard him as a kind
of remembrancer, come to admonish him that it is time to return to the
circumstances he had overlooked all the night time; to leave off fancying
what he is not, and prepare to act suitably to the condition he is really
placed in.”

That may be called a dream which proceeds either from the spirit of the
phantasy and intellect united together, or by the illustration of the
agent intellect above our souls, or by the true revelation of some divine
power in a quiet and purified mind; for by this our soul receives true
oracles, and abundantly yields prophecies to us; as in dreams we seem both
to ask questions and learn to find them out. Also many doubtful things,
many policies, many things unknown, unwished for, and never attempted by
our minds, are manifested to us in dreams; also the representation of
things unknown and unknown places appear to us, and the images of men,
both alive and dead; and things to come are foretold, and also which at
any time have happened are revealed, which we know not by any report. And
these kind of dreams need not any interpretation, as those which belong to
divination, not to foreknowledge; and it comes to pass that they who have
dreams for the most part understand them not; for, as to have dreams is
from the strength of imagination, so to understand them is from the
strength of understanding. He, therefore, whose intellect being
overwhelmed by too much commerce of the flesh, is in a deep sleep, or his
fantastic power or spirit is too dull and unpolished, so that it cannot
receive the species and representation which flow from the superior
intellect; this man is altogether unfit for the receiving of dreams and
prophesying by them. Therefore it is necessary that he who would receive
true dreams, should keep a pure, undisturbed and imaginative spirit; and
so compass it that it may be made worthy of the knowledge and government
by the mind, for such a spirit is most fit for prophesying and is a most
clear glass of all images which flow everywhere from all things. When,
therefore, we are sound in body, not disturbed in mind, our intellect not
made dull by heavy meats and strong drink, not sad through poverty, nor
provoked through lust, nor incited by any vice, nor stirred up by wrath or
anger, not being irreligiously and profanely inclined, not given to
levity, nor lost in drunkenness; but chastely going to bed, fall asleep,
then our pure and divine soul being free from all the evils above recited,
and separated from all hurtful thoughts, and now freed, by dreaming, is
endowed with this divine spirit as an instrument, and receives those beams
and representations which are darted down as it were, and shine forth from
the divine mind into itself, in a deifying glass. It does more certainly,
more clearly and efficaciously, behold all things, than by the vulgar
inquiry of the intellect and by the discourse of reason. The divine person
instructing the soul, being invited to their society by the opportunity of
the nocturnal solitariness, neither will that spirit of genius be wanting
to him when he is awake, which rules all our actions. But there are four
kinds of true dreams, viz.: the first, matutine, _i. e._ between sleeping
and waking; the second, that which one sees concerning another; the third,
that whose interpretation is shown to the same dreamer in the nocturnal
vision; and, lastly, that which is related to the same dreamer in the
nocturnal vision. But natural things and their own co-mixtures likewise
belong unto wise men, and we often use such to receive oracles from a
spirit by a dream, which are either by perfumes, unctions, meats, drinks,
rings, seals, &c. Now those who are desirous to receive oracles in or
through a dream, let them make themselves a ring of the sun or Saturn for
this purpose. There are likewise images of dreams, which being put under
the head when one goes to sleep, effectually give true dreams of whatever
the mind hath before determined, of which as follows:

Thou shalt make an image of the sun, the figure whereof must be a man
sleeping upon the bosom of an angel; which thou shalt make when Leo
ascends, the sun being in the ninth house in Aries; then you must write
upon the figure the name of the effect desired, and in the hand of the
angel the name and character of the intelligence of the sun, which is
Michael.

Let the same image be made in Virgo ascending, Mercury being fortunate in
Aries in the ninth, or Gemini ascending, Mercury being fortunate in the
ninth house in Aquarius; and let him be received by Saturn with a
fortunate aspect, and let the name of the spirit (which is Raphael) be
written upon it. Let the same likewise be made, Libra ascending, Venus
being received from Mercury in Gemini in the ninth house, and write upon
it the name of the angel of Venus (which is Annael). Again you make the
same image, Aquarius ascending, Saturn fortunately possessing the ninth in
his exaltation, which is Libra, and let there be written upon it the name
of the angel of Saturn, (which is Cassi-al). The same may be made with
Cancer ascending, the moon being received by Jupiter and Venus in Pisces,
and being fortunately placed in the ninth house, and write upon it the
spirit of the moon (which is Gabriel).

There are likewise made rings of dreams of wonderful efficacy, and there
are rings of the sun and Saturn, and the constellation of them is when the
sun or Saturn ascend in their exaltation in the ninth house of the
nativity, and write and engrave upon the rings the name of the sun or
Saturn, and by these rules you may know how and by what means to
constitute more of yourself. But know this, that such images work nothing
(as they are simply images), except they are vivified by a spiritual and
celestial virtue and chiefly by the ardent desire and firm intent of the
soul of the operator. But who can give a soul to an image, or make a
stone, or metal, or clay, or wood, or wax, or paper to live? Certainly no
man whatever; for this arcanum doth enter into an artist of a stiff neck;
he only hath it who transcends the progress of angels and comes to the
very Archtype himself.

He who is desirous of receiving true oracles by dreams, let him abstain
from supper, from drink, and be otherwise well disposed, so his brain will
be free from turbulent vapors; let him also have his bedchamber fair and
clean, exorcised and consecrated, then let him perfume the same with some
convenient fumigation, and let him anoint his temples with some
efficacious unguent and put a ring of dreams upon his finger; then let him
take one of the images we have spoken of and place the same under his
head; then let him address himself to sleep, meditating upon that thing
which he desires to know. So shall he receive a most certain and undoubted
oracle by a dream, when the moon goes through the sign of the ninth
revolution of his nativity, and when she is in the ninth sign from the
sign of perfection.

This is the way whereby we may obtain all sciences and arts whatever,
whether astrology, occult philosophy, physic, &c., or else suddenly and
perfectly with a true illumination of our intellect, although all inferior
familiar spirits whatsoever conduce to this effect, and sometimes also
evil spirits sensibly inform us intrinsically and extrinsically.




THE WAY TO GET RICH


“There is a tide in the affairs of men, which, taken at the flood, leads
to fortune.”

    “He that by the plough would thrive,
    Himself must either hold or drive;
    For age and want save while you may,
    No morning’s sun lasts a whole day;
    Get what you can, and what you get, hold,
    ’Tis a stone that will turn all your lead into gold;
    Therefore be ruled by me, I pray,
    Save something for a rainy day.”

_Remember_, that time is money, for he that can earn a dollar a day at his
labor, and goes abroad, or sits at home one-half of that day, though he
spend but six cents during his diversion or idleness, he ought not to
reckon that the only expense; he has really wasted, or rather thrown away,
fifty cents besides.

_Remember_, that credit is money; if a man lets his money lie in my hands
after it is due, because he has a good opinion of my credit, he gives me
the interest, or so much as I can make of the money during that time; this
amounts to a very considerable sum, where a man has large credit and also
makes a good use of it.

_Remember_, that money is of a prolific or multiplying nature; money will
produce money, and its offspring will produce more; and so five shillings
turned is six, being turned again is seven and three-pence, and so on,
till it becomes a hundred pounds; and the more there is of it, the more it
will produce on every turning, so that the profits rise quicker and
quicker; and he who throws away a crown, destroys all that it might have
produced, even some scores of pounds.

_Remember_, that six pounds a year is a groat a day, for this little sum
(which may be daily wasted either in time or expenses unperceived), if a
proper use be made of it, he may, on his own security, have the constant
possession and use of a hundred and twenty pounds. So much in stock,
briskly turned by an industrious man, will always produce the greatest
advantage to the tradesman. Remember this proverb, that the good paymaster
is lord of another man’s purse, for he who is known to pay punctually and
exactly at the time he promises, may, at any time, and on any occasion,
raise all the money his friend can spare. This is sometimes of great use;
next to industry and frugality nothing can contribute more to the raising
of a man in the world than punctuality in all his dealings. Therefore,
never keep borrowed money one single hour beyond the time promised, lest
the disappointment should shut up your friend’s purse forever, as the most
trifling actions that affect a man’s credit ought always to be avoided.
The sound of the hammer at five in the morning, or at nine at night,
being heard by a creditor, makes him easy six months longer; but if he
sees you at a gaming table, or hears your voice in a tavern, when you
should be at work, he sends for his money the very next day and demands it
before it is convenient for you to pay him. Beware of thinking all your
own that you possess and of living accordingly. This is a mistake that
many people of credit fall into; but in order to prevent this, always keep
an exact account both of your expenses and also of your daily income and
profits. For if you will only just take the trouble at first to enumerate
particulars, it will discover unto you how wonderfully trifling expenses
mount up to a large sum; by which you will also discern what might have
been, and also what may for the future be saved without causing any great
inconvenience. In short, the way to obtain riches, if you desire it, is as
plain as the way to the market, which depends chiefly on two things, viz.:
industry and frugality; and take care that you waste neither time nor
money, but daily make use of both; if you take care of the hours and days,
the weeks, months and years will also take care of themselves. Constant
experience proves that any business being first well contrived, is more
than half done--for a sleeping fox catches no poultry; there will be sleep
enough in the grave, and also, that lost time is seldom found again, for
that which we generally call time enough, always proves little enough; for
sloth makes things difficult, while industry makes them easy. He that
rises late must trot hard all day and shall scarce overtake his business
at night--for laziness travels so slow that poverty soon overtakes him.
Drive your business, but let not that drive you; for early to bed and
early to rise, is the way to become healthy, wealthy and wise. Industry
need not wish, while he who lives on a vain hope will die fasting; for we
find that there is nothing to be done or accomplished under the sun
without labor. He that hath a trade, hath an estate, and he that hath a
profession, hath an office and profit with honor; but then the trade must
be worked at, and the profession well followed, or they will not enable
you to pay rent and taxes. At the working man’s house hunger looks in but
dares not enter; for industry pays debts, while despair increases them.
Diligence is the mother of good luck; as Solomon saith: “The diligent hand
maketh rich, while he that dealeth with a slack hand becometh poor; for
God gives all things to industry.” Then plow deep while the sluggards
sleep, and you shall have plenty, while others have reason to complain of
hard times. Therefore keep working while it is called to-day, for you know
not how much you may be hindered to-morrow; and never leave that business
to be done to-morrow which you can do to-day; for since you are not sure
of a single hour, throw not that away. How many are they who live daily by
their wits, and who often break from want of a stock in hand, while
industry gives comfort, plenty and respect. Keep your shop well and then
your shop will keep you. For it sometimes happens that the eyes of a
master will do more work than both his hands, and more especially if his
head be any reasonable length; for the want of care doth more damage than
the want of knowledge. If you do not overlook your workmen, you may just
as well leave them your purse open; the trusting too much to the care of
others has completely ruined many a man. If you would be wealthy, think of
being careful and saving; for

    “Women and wine, game and deceit,
    Make the wealth small and the wants great.”

That which maintains one vice, would bring up two children. And if you
wish to know the value of money, only just go and try to borrow a little;
he that goes borrowing, goes sorrowing, and, indeed, so doth he who lends
it unto such people, when he goes to try to get it back again. Pride that
dines on vanity, sups on content and often breakfasts with plenty, dines
with poverty and sups with infamy, creates envy, and hastens misfortunes;
for it is hard for an empty bag to stand upright. Creditors have generally
much better memories than debtors, who are also a kind of superstitious
set, great observers of set or appointed days and times; so that those
have but a short Lent who owe money to be paid at Easter; for expenses are
always so constant and certain, that it is much easier to build two
chimneys than to keep one in fuel. Rather go to bed supperless than rise
in debt. Always do unto others as you would wish to be done by, is the
first fundamental law of natural justice.




LEAVES OF DESTINY.


_Directions for Consulting the Sibyl._--Draw for a number from slips
numbered from 1 to 100, and see corresponding number in Leaves of Destiny;
or, simply call out numbers selected.

      1. You’ll meet this year on Brighton Strand,
         One destined for your heart and hand.

      2. Choose one--if you are shrewd,
         No safety lies in multitude.

      3. Endless flirtation
         Doth seem your vocation.

      4. Bracing air and embracing arms,
         Give Coney Island especial charms.

      5. Young or old? Love or gold?
         Hot or cold? Given or sold?
         Toss odd or even--you’ll be told.

      6. Some natures change on the change of name
         But like the rose you’ll be the same.

      7. For music and balls,
         You’ll have nursery squalls.

      8. The right one cometh from New York,
         With heart and purse as light as cork.

      9. Away with pride and cold disdain,
         Or you’ll too long a maid remain.

     10. Don’t have for motto, “Both best,”
         But--“Choose one, look at the rest.”

     11. ’Tis simply true, tho’ you may laugh,
         That you will worship a golden calf.

     12. This year a lover will with pride,
         Watch thee sporting in the tide.

     13. At Ocean Grove you’ll forsake worldly notions,
         Drink nothing but tea and attend your devotions.

     14. A heart and fortune you will gain,
         In this summer’s grand campaign.

     15. Before you go too far,
         Be sure there’s not another side
         The brighter side to mar.

     16. A life both long and wisely spent,
         With children to your heart’s content.

     17. Happy when single, but not content,
         You’ll marry in haste and soon repent.

     18. Lovers and books romantic--
         Music of the grand Atlantic--
         This year will make you nearly frantic.

     19. The “Mighty Dollar” cannot buy
         The love for which in vain you sigh.

     20. Look in the glass and you will see
         Your source of power and frailty.

     21. A well known line you may transpose--
         “A thorn is always near a rose.”

     22. You nobly strive to make it known
         “’Tis bad for man to be alone.”

     23. Before the present year is out,
         Your wedding cards will be about.

     24. Drifting away, day by day!
         No one to say, “Stay! oh, stay!”

     25. A heartless flirt! you’ll penance do
         For all the innocents you slew.

     26. To you, I’m afraid, it is useless to preach
         About the temptations of Rockaway Beach.

     27. Merry and free your revelry!
         Soon tired you’ll be of deviltry.

     28. You’ll give up athletics;
         And take to æsthetics.

     29. On some fine day, not very remote,
         You’ll meet your match on a Rockaway boat.

     30. Your head is hot, your heart is cold--
         I pity your lot when you grow old.

     31. When you’re seized with fits æsthetic,
         Take at once a strong emetic.

     32. With throbbing heart and trembling hand
         Soon at the altar you will stand.

     33. You’ll count among your future joys,
         Six little girls, six little boys.

     34. Before you sip, take firm grip,
         You’ll have no slip ’tween cup and lip.

     35. Your pace, I fear, is rather fast--
         Your love’s by far too hot to last!

     36. The greatest blessing you will find,
         That Love should be completely blind.

     37. Inconstant as the fickle wind,
         From day to day you’ll change your mind.

     38. Newport is the grand resort
         For those, like you, intent on sport.

     39. A blow on the pier--a plunge in the brine--
         Is all that’s required to make you divine.

     40. Lovers come and quickly go
         When they find your heart like dough.

     41. The slightest rebuff makes you ready to die,
         So fatal the kick from a gay butterfly.

     42. Like Wilde and such æsthetic guys,
         You ape an angel in disguise.

     43. When weary of sands and the wild waves’ play,
         To the glorious White Mountains fly away.

     44. So rich, but sad; suppose you try
         The Tonics of Adversity.

     45. Ever dreaming, never doing,
         You’ll gain nought by seaside wooing.

     46. Unless you resolve more social to be
         You must stop at home like the Heathen Chinee.

     47. You will love and run away,
         And live to love another day.

     48. You’ll have good cause to bless the day
         Your eyes beheld the famed Cape May.

     49. You shall have a busy summer,
         Flirting hard with each new comer.

     50. Be merry now; no more you’ll laugh
         When you have found your _bitter_-half.

     51. Your sorrow may endure a night,
         But joy will come with morning’s light.

     52. The darling of your heart’s devotion
         Is on the broad Atlantic Ocean.

     53. Cheer up! cheer up! I plainly see
         Bright golden days in store for thee.

     54. You’ll go back when the weather cools,
         To taffy-pulling and singing schools.

     55. Like the flow and ebb of tide
         Your spirits rise and soon subside.

     56. Bright visions rise as this year falls,
         Of concerts, theatres and balls.

     57. At Saratoga’s famous Springs
         An era bright for you begins.

     58. Sing when you’re sad
         And soon you’ll feel glad.

     59. When summer’s heat and sport are o’er
         In Florida you’ll seek for more.

     60. Avoid all that sin and cruel temptation
         Which assail young folk in the summer vacation.

     61. You’re building castles in the air,
         To end in grief and dark despair.

     62. On Sea Girt Beach entranced you’ll be
         By charms more rare than scenery.

     63. Sunflower, lily and daffodil
         An empty purse will never fill.

     64. Blue and white your sole delight,
         Yellow and black are put to flight.

     65. You lack the courage to say “No,”
         Hence all your troubles here below.

     66. Lawn Tennis is the pastime sweet
         Where a life partner you will meet.

     67. Enjoy the sunshine while you may--
         Too soon the chance will pass away.

     68. Avoid whate’er your spirit vexes--
         Despise “old women” of both sexes.

     69. Smiles and tears, hopes and fears,
         The rainbow hues of early years.

     70. Sweet and bright as the month of May,
         Your life shall seem a holiday.

     71. You once extolled the “Age of Reason;”
         Your mind will change this very season.

     72. You prized too much, as you’ll confess,
         A life of single blessedness.

     73. You’ll break the heartless law of fashion,
         And own at last the tender passion.

     74. Like Oscar and his crew,
         You are “too utterly too too.”

     75. Your sole recreation--
         To cause a sensation.

     76. Your photo book will change this year
         And former fav’rites disappear.

     77. To keep single you’ll contrive,
         Up to prudent twenty-five.

     78. Your destiny is hard to fix,
         Bitter and sweet so freely mix.

     79. Love requited--vows well plighted!
         Hearts and hands for aye united!

     80. This year a treasure you’ll discover--
         A brownstone house and a brimstone lover.

     81. The wedding bells soon merrily
         Shall ring a chime to gladden thee.

     82. Sighing and dying, and wretchedly trying
         To look well pleased when you’d like to be crying.

     83. When you go out to sea to fish,
         You’ll catch the very thing you wish.

     84. To Asbury Park you will repair,
         Where men may smoke and drink--the air.

     85. You soon must solve the problem grave--
         “An old man’s pet or young one’s slave?”

     86. If they are blest, whose quiver’s full,
         Your lot shall be right joyful.

     87. Some dress to live; but you, I guess,
         Like many, only live to dress.

     88. A sphere in life you will ensure,
         Where men are true and women pure.

     89. Tennis, polo, bathing, boating,
         Picnic, music, flirting, doting--
         These your pastimes best worth noting.

     90. When vanities bring weariness,
         You’ll seek a rural wilderness--
         Meet penance for your wickedness!

     91. Unless you’re a Mormon or a Turk,
         Contented you’ll be with this year’s work.

     92. Your seaside dreams of love and money
         Will end in country milk and honey.

     93. How sweet to thee is love’s young dream,
         When gliding down the placid stream.

     94. Dear captive feet are now set free,
         To skip and dance right merrily,
         As winter stealeth o’er the sea.

     95. You’ll meet many cranks at the seaside this year;
         It must be the Comet that made them so queer.

     96. You’ll have, in place of dance hall skips,
         Holy greetings from brethren’s lips--
         Prayer meetings: good fellowships.

     97. The happy day is drawing nigh--
         To all your pains and cares good-bye!

     98. The summer dies and birds of prey
         To city haunts now fly away.

     99. You’re leaving now to meet no more,
         The only one you could adore.

    100. Last of all, and not too late,
         Fortune comes to those who wait.

[Illustration]




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 1.

CONTAINING 100 SONGS.


    A handful of earth.
    A warrior bold.
    All on account of Eliza.
    Are you going to the hop this evening.
    A violet from mother’s grave.
    Angel’s whisper.
    Betsy and I are out--_Recitation_.
    Biddy, the ballet girl.
    Be home early to-night, my dear boy.
    Brave huzzars.
    Betsy destroys the paper--_Recitation_.
    Blue bells of Scotland.
    Baby’s got a tooth.
    Beautiful leaves.
    Betsy and I hafe bust up--_Recitation_.
    Blue Alsatian mountains.
    Chickens in the garden.
    Cows are in the corn.
    Charge of the light brigade--_Recit._
    Colored hop.
    Camptown races.
    Come where my love lies dreaming.
    Decision in “The Gipsy’s Warning.”
    Double-breasted mansion on the square.
    Dar am honey on dese lips.
    Down in a coal mine.
    Drunkard’s dream.
    Dear Irish boy.
    Emmet’s “Mountain Song.”
    Father Tom O’Neil.
    Granite mill fire.
    Grant’s trip around the world.
    Grave of Wolf Tone--_Recitation_.
    Gwine to cross the river by-and-by.
    Garden where the praties grow.
    Hang up your hat behind the door.
    Hard times, come again no more.
    I can’t make it out, can you?
    I’ve a baby in Kalamazoo.
    I don’t like a cur at my heels.
    In de lowlands, low.
    Irish fair.
    Joe Bowers.
    Keep in de middle ob de road.
    Kitty Tyrrel.
    Little brown cot on the hill.
    Little old house on the Rhine.
    Let Erin remember the days of old.
    Lost Rosabel.
    Little flower you gave me.
    Love’s chidings.
    Mary Ann, I’ll tell your ma.
    Moonlight at Killarney.
    Mother would comfort me.
    Mulligan’s funeral.
    My pretty Jane.
    Mary Ann McLaughlin.
    Mary’s gone wid a coon.
    Mr. and Mrs. Malone.
    Norah, the pride of Kildare.
    No one to love.
    Oh! Fred, tell them to stop.
    Our Army and Navy of blue.
    Over the garden wall.
    Old fashioned church on the hill.
    Old fashioned homestead.
    On the strict Q. T.
    Oh! breathe not his name.
    Old brown pants.
    Old mountain tree.
    Our grandfather’s days.
    O’Reilly’s billy goat--_Recitation_.
    Pallet of straw.
    Patrick, mind the baby.
    Patter of der shingles--_Recitation_.
    Sadie darling.
    Sarah’s young man.
    Shamus O’Brien--_Recitation_.
    Spring, gentle spring.
    Same thing over again.
    Schneider’s ride--_Recitation_.
    She is far from the land.
    Temple of fame.
    There is a fine ship on the ocean.
    Tramp--_Recitation_.
    True Irish gents.
    Turnpike gate.
    Twickenham ferry.
    Twinkle, twinkle, little star.
    Tam O’Shanter hat.
    True as steel.
    Tar’s farewell.
    Torpedo and the whale.
    Tramp! tramp! tramp! the boys are marching.
    Up at Jones’ wood.
    When these old clothes were new.
    Wist! Wist! Wist!
    White cockade.
    Way down upon the Suwanee ribber.
    Wife’s dream.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 2.

CONTAINING 95 SONGS.


    Angel Gabriel.
    Annie Lisle.
    A rolling stone gathers no moss.
    Annie of the vale.
    A leaf of ivy from mother’s grave.
    A lock of mother’s hair.
    An Irishman’s letter--_Comic Reading_.
    Barney McCoy.
    Believe me in all those endearing young charms.
    Boys of Kilkenny.
    Boston burglar.
    Boston fire.
    Belle Brandon.
    Big sun flower.
    Billy Grimes, the rover.
    Bold Jack Donohue.
    Cod liver oil.
    Captain Jinks, of the horse marines.
    Close the shutters, Willie’s dead.
    Casey’s whiskey.
    Death of President Garfield.
    Drifting with the tide.
    Dying soldier--_Recitation_.
    Don’t call in the morning.
    Dreamy eyes haunt me still.
    Don’t get weary, children.
    Eileen, sweet Eileen.
    Empty is the stable, Davy’s gone.
    Evening star.
    Flags of all nations.
    Farmer’s boy.
    Fisherman and his child.
    Flying trapeze.
    Gentle heart be true.
    German fifth.
    Good-bye, Susan Jane.
    Good-bye, Charley.
    Give bread to the poor.
    God save our president from every harm.
    Huckleberry picnic.
    Hungry man from Harlem.
    It’s naughty, but it’s nice.
    I hope I don’t intrude.
    I love my love in de morning.
    I’ll bet you a dollar you don’t.
    I’m a man you don’t meet every day.
    In de evening by de moonlight.
    I will be true to thee.
    I’d offer thee this hand of mine.
    I’m the governor’s only son.
    I’ve got a donkey.
    In the days when I was hard up.
    It don’t belong to me.
    I’d choose to be a baby.
    I long to be single again.
    I wandered by the brookside.
    John Brown’s song; or, glory, glory, hallelujah.
    John Mitchel.
    Johnny is gone for a soldier.
    Just landed.
    Jim Bludso--_Recitation_.
    Kitty Clyde.
    Leave not your Kathleen.
    Lecture on “Demperance.”
    Love! love! love!
    Let the dead and the beautiful rest.
    Last night I was dreaming of you.
    Mid-watch.
    Muldoon, the solid man.
    McKenna's dream.
    Minnie, hear the bluebird sing.
    My sweetheart, when a boy.
    Never empty cradle, twins are born.
    Not before pa, dear.
    Old zip coon.
    Old plantation’s lonely.
    Paul Revere’s ride--_Recitation_.
    She’s a gal o’ mine.
    Squire and Maria.
    Sunny days will come again.
    Sailing on the lake.
    Sheridan’s ride--_Recitation_.
    Strawberries and cream.
    That’s how you get served when you’re old.
    Things I don’t like to see.
    Tiddle-a-wink, the barber.
    True to the core.
    Toss the Turk.
    True lover’s discussion.
    Under the window she’s sleeping.
    Violets dipped in dew.
    Why did they dig ma’s grave so deep?
    We are coming, sister Mary.
    Yankee doodle.
    Your lassie will be true.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 3.

CONTAINING 97 SONGS.


    A hundred years to come.
    Atheist and acorn--_Recitation_.
    Annie o’ the banks o’ Dee.
    A man’s a man for a’ that.
    A motto for every man.
    Beautiful dreamer.
    Beautiful Venice.
    Blue and the gray.
    Baby’s got a cramp.
    Bay of Biscay, O!
    Boys, keep away from the gals.
    Bread and cheese and kisses.
    Bright emerald isle of the sea.
    Buck Fanshaw’s funeral.
    Captain with his whiskers.
    Clarabel Magee.
    College days.
    Come and kiss me.
    Digging for gold.
    Don’t slam the gate.
    Duffy’s opening night.
    Dan Maloney is the man.
    Dying Californian.
    Days of ’49.
    Down by the river side.
    Dree dousand miles avay.
    Ellen Bayne.
    Fearfully and wonderfully made.
    Flow gently, sweet Afton.
    Farmer sat in his easy chair.
    Gentle Annie.
    Guilty or not guilty?--_Recitation_.
    Goat, The.
    Gum tree canoe.
    Hazel dell.
    I’ll hang my harp on a willow tree.
    Is it anybody’s business?
    Irishman’s shanty.
    It’s funny when you feel that way.
    Indian hunter.
    Indian warrior’s grave.
    Ingleside.
    Irish jaunting car.
    John Anderson, my Jo, John.
    Johnny Sands.
    Katy’s letter.
    Kiss me quick and go.
    Kate Kearney.
    Little old duddeen.
    Little Yawcob Strauss--_Recitation_.
    Little more cider.
    Miss Gruber’s boarding house.
    Maggie by my side.
    Merriest girl that’s out.
    Mike Brady’s shirt.
    Mistletoe bough.
    Meet me at the lane.
    Mulligan guard.
    Nettie Moore.
    Nicodemus Johnson.
    Nancy Till.
    O’Donnel Abu.
    Old arm chair.
    Our front stoop.
    Pat Malloy.
    Patriots of Ireland.
    Pat Maloney’s family.
    Pretty Jemima, don’t say no.
    Pull down your vest.
    Perhaps she’s on the railway.
    Pirate’s serenade.
    Polish boy--_Recitation_.
    Paddy Blake’s echo.
    Rose of Allandale.
    Row of tenement houses.
    Ring, ring de banjo.
    Regular army, O!
    Rory O’More.
    Spade.
    Stump speech.
    Shelling green peas.
    Skin-tight pants.
    Tipperary christening.
    They’ve all got a wife but me.
    Three black crows.
    Twinkling stars.
    Tapping at the garden gate.
    Thou art gone from my gaze.
    Valley lay smiling before me.
    Walking down Broadway.
    Why should the spirit of mortal be proud--_Recitation_.
    Wait till the clouds roll by.
    When the band begins to play.
    What is home without a mother?
    Who will care for mother now?
    Widow Malone.
    Wrongs of ould Ireland.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 4.

CONTAINING 99 SONGS.


    An Irishman’s toast.
    Apple of my eye.
    Arthur and Martha.
    Asleep at the switch--_Recitation_.
    A knot of blue and gray.
    Always gay and free, boys.
    Bear it like a man.
    Bootblack--_Recitation_.
    Brother’s fainting at the door.
    Beautiful snow.
    Carry the news to Mary.
    Coney Island, down der bay.
    Committed to the deep.
    Champagne Charlie.
    Dearest Mae.
    Douglas! tender and true.
    Deal with me kindly.
    Don’t say I told you.
    Down the hill.
    Deer Island, down the bay.
    Fat Mickey.
    Feel for the eyes that are weeping.
    Five o’clock in the morning.
    Get a little table.
    Get thee gone, girl.
    Get away from dat window.
    Human harp.
    Hark! I hear an angel sing.
    Hildebrand Montrose.
    I’ll wait till the clouds roll by.
    I had but fifty cents.
    ’Twas not my father.
    In the starlight.
    Ivy cabin in the lane.
    John Armstrong.
    Johnny Dougherty, the tailor.
    Just over.
    Jim, the carter lad.
    Lackawanna spooners.
    Light of other days.
    Limerick races.
    Little back parlor at home.
    Little Maggie Ann.
    McCarthy’s mare.
    Mother’s fool--_Recitation_.
    Mulcahey’s gone away.
    Man who struck my wife.
    My dear little friend, Louise.
    Miller’s daughter.
    My poor dog Tray.
    My pretty Irish queen.
    Mother, he’s going away.
    No Irish wanted here.
    Near the banks of that lone river.
    Nelly was a lady.
    New York society.
    Oh! take me to thy heart again.
    Old Grimes’ cellar door.
    Old rustic bridge by the mill.
    Old Dan Tucker.
    Ophelia Murphy’s birthmark.
    O! ’tis nice to have a dummy.
    Old Grimes is dead.
    Parted.
    Pennsylvania tramp.
    Portrait that hangs on the wall.
    Peek-a-boo.
    Pretty Peggy.
    Robin Adair.
    Run for the doctor.
    Swim out for glory.
    Scenes that are brightest.
    Since Cordelia first wore bangs.
    Since Terry first joined the gang.
    Silver slippers.
    Steam arm.
    Sweet-scented handsome young man.
    Shan Van Voght.
    Same old game.
    Ten little niggers.
    To the west.
    Tassels on the boots.
    There’s a light in the window for thee.
    Things that I’d like to see.
    Vagabond.
    Villain still pursued her.
    Waterford boys.
    When Johnny comes marching home.
    When the Brooklyn bridge is done.
    When the pigs begin to fly.
    Widow Machree.
    Wreck of the “London.”
    Where the ivy grows so green.
    When this cruel war is over.
    White squall.
    Wouldn’t you like to know.
    Water cresses.
    What the old cock sparrow said.
    Whistling thief.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 5.

CONTAINING 101 SONGS.


    Æsthetic Mick.
    After the opera’s over.
    A hundred fathoms deep.
    A wet sheet and a flowing sea.
    Ain’t you awful.
    All among the hay.
    Big aquarium.
    Brannigan’s pup.
    Babylon is fallen.
    Bell goes a ringing for Sarah.
    Biddy Doyle.
    Brannigan’s band.
    Battle of Fontenoy.
    Bowery grenadiers.
    Beautiful bells.
    Best little wife in the world.
    Bridget Donohue.
    Bugaboo.
    Come back to your Irish home.
    Cobbler’s daughter.
    Colleen Dhas Machree.
    Drummer--_Recitation_.
    Death of Nelson.
    Dot funny leetle baby--_Recitation_.
    Dude, The--_Recitation_.
    Fast freight--_Recitation_.
    Fine old English gentleman.
    Finest police in the world.
    Flirtation O’Toole.
    Female barber shop.
    General Grant’s trip around the world.
    Gilhooley, your coat is half-mast.
    Good-bye, John.
    Gobble song.
    Gold, gold, gold.
    Great man that Ireland has seen.
    Good-bye, my lover, good-bye.
    Hang up the baby’s stocking.
    I’ll tell nobody.
    I’m proud I’m an Irishman born.
    I must be there on New Year’s day--_Rec._
    It’s a cold day when I get left.
    I’ll meet her when the sun goes down.
    I’ll take you home again, Kathleen.
    I’m proud I’m an Irishman’s son.
    I was despised because I was poor.
    Jumbo.
    Johnny Morgan.
    Just down the lane.
    Jenny who lives in the dell.
    Jessie, the flower of Dumblane.
    Kerry dance.
    Lorena.
    Lancashire lass.
    Lovely land of dreams.
    Life is but a game of cards--_Recitation_.
    Maud Muller (in Dutch)--_Recitation_.
    Montgomery guard--_Recitation_.
    Man who taught her to dance.
    Mattie dear.
    Mott Street, 499.
    My love Nell.
    My love she is a fairy queen.
    Moonlight walk.
    Nobody knows the trouble I see.
    Nobody knows what a racket was there.
    New York Police Gazette.
    Norine Maureen.
    No Irish need apply.
    Only a pin--_Recitation_.
    Only to see thee, darling.
    Oh! you little darling, I love you.
    One more ribber for to cross.
    Over the neighbor’s fence.
    Old pine tree.
    Pool.
    Poor Irish minstrel.
    Romance of a hammock--_Recitation_.
    Rock the cradle, John.
    Ship that brought me over.
    Stuck on our shape.
    Some one to love.
    Speak, oh speak to me again.
    Tail iv me coat.
    They’re all getting married but me.
    Tom Bowling.
    Tommy, make room for your auntie.
    This little plain gold ring.
    Touch the elbow.
    Up in a balloon.
    Up in a mulberry tree.
    We never speak as we pass by.
    Wolf at the door--_Recitation_.
    Waterfall, The.
    We may be happy yet.
    Which shall it be?--_Recitation_.
    What will you do, love?
    When the robins nest again.
    You never miss the lager till the keg runs dry.
    Yellow meal.
    Yellow-haired Nellie--_Recitation_.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 6.

CONTAINING 96 SONGS.


    A lean banana.
    Ah, there my size, I’ll mash you.
    Æsthetic dude, The.
    Angels meet me on the cross-road.
    A smile was all she gave me.
    Art of making love, The.
    A boy’s best friend is his mother.
    Be quiet, or I’ll scream.
    Burial of Sir John Moore.
    Bye, bye, Baby; bye, bye.
    Baby and I.
    Baby’s lullaby.
    Billy’s dream.
    Bitter beer.
    Black Hills, The.
    Call me back again.
    Convict’s dream--_Recitation_.
    Call me your darling again.
    Curfew must not ring to-night--_Rec._
    Chinese song.
    Darling Clo’.
    Dandy dude, The.
    Down the river.
    Fontenoy.
    Father will settle the bill.
    Fountain in the Park.
    Fond memories of home.
    Gaily the troubador.
    Good-bye, Biddy dear.
    Greenpoint Nell.
    Gambler’s wife--_Recitation_.
    Hash.
    Hurrah for old Ireland.
    Hoolahan musketeers.
    Hush-a-bye, baby.
    Hoops.
    I’ll await my love.
    Ivy green.
    I’m a man that’s done wrong to my parents.
    Juice of the forbidden fruit.
    Jeanette and Jeannot.
    Just to please the boys.
    Jakey Woolfenstein.
    Johnny Schmoker.
    Kind relations.
    Lover’s telegraph.
    Last farewell.
    Lilly Dale.
    Lord delivered Daniel.
    Love song.
    Mary Ann, go get the growler.
    Mill’s shut down to-day.
    Mr. John Malone.
    Mulcahey’s sooner dog--_Recitation_.
    Mahoney’s fenian cat--_Recitation_.
    Maniac--_Recitation_.
    Man that stole the country.
    March of the Cameron men.
    Moneyless man.
    Marble arch.
    Mother keeps the gate locked now.
    Nineteen hundred and one.
    Not for Joseph.
    Newhall House fire.
    Only a dear little flower.
    Oh, Mr. Flannigan.
    Old church bell.
    Over the mountain.
    Old plaid shawl.
    Old village blacksmith’s shop.
    Our Jack’s come home to-day.
    Oh! boys, carry me ’long.
    People will talk.
    Plumber--_Recitation_.
    Poor little soldier’s boy.
    Pat of Mullingar.
    Perverted proverbs.
    Patrolman Mulcahey and Flynn.
    Price of a drink--_Recitation_.
    Raven--_Recitation_.
    Sailing.
    Somebody’s darling--_Recitation_.
    Springtime and robins have come.
    Tommy Dodd.
    Taffy was a Welshman.
    Ting, ting, that’s how the bell goes.
    Timid awkward squad.
    To my wife.
    What I would do for her--_Recitation_.
    We reap what we sow--_Recitation_.
    What I live for--_Recitation_.
    Whiskey, you’re the divil.
    Wreck of the “Atlantic.”
    When the leaves begin to fall.
    Ye merry birds.
    Young recruit.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 7.

CONTAINING 94 SONGS.


    Animals’ fair.
    A dollar and sixty a day.
    A Yankee man of war.
    An agricultural Irish girl.
    A roller-rink romance--_Recitation_.
    As I read the paper through.
    Burke’s dream.
    Banks o’ Doon.
    Bed-bug--_Recitation_.
    Betty and the baby.
    Barney, take me home again.
    Boy with the auburn hair.
    Beans.
    Candidate for alderman.
    Cats in our back-yard.
    Climbing up the golden stairs.
    Colored band.
    Call her back and kiss her.
    Casey’s awful grub.
    Coal oil Tommy.
    Don’t leave your mother, Tom.
    Drummer boy of Waterloo.
    Dream faces.
    Duffy, the swell.
    Don’t you cry so, Norah darling.
    Erin-go-bragh.
    Fashionable Fred.
    Far, far, away.
    Fine old Irish gentleman.
    Female smuggler.
    Free and easy.
    Good ship Cumberland.
    Good-bye, ’Liza Jane.
    Gipsy Davy.
    Gal with the Gainsborough hat.
    Hush, little baby, don’t you cry.
    Here she goes and there she goes.
    House carpenter.
    Hornet’s nest--_Recitation_.
    I’ll ask my mother and I’ll let you know next Sunday afternoon.
    Irish Wife--_Recitation_.
    I’m in jail, my love.
    Jockey hat and feather.
    Jolly Jack, the rover.
    Keiser, der yer vant to buy a dog?
    Kitty of Coleraine.
    Knock at the window to-night, love.
    Leave not your Kathleen.
    Little brown church.
    Lord Bateman and the fair Sophia.
    Lay my head beneath a rose.
    Little fraud.
    Lost Charley Ross.
    Meet me darling Kate, by the cottage gate.
    My trundle bed.
    Masonic song.
    McSorley’s twins.
    My wife is so awfully thin.
    Mother, is the battle over?
    Not much.
    Nelly Bly.
    Old bog hole.
    Oh! Nicodemus.
    Old familiar faces.
    Oft in the stilly night.
    Old turnkey.
    Old gray mare.
    Old Simon, the hot-corn man.
    Popsy wopsy.
    Please don’t sell father any more rum.
    Peck’s bad boy--PART I.
    Peck’s bad boy--PART II.
    Pills.
    Railway guard.
    Rover’s grave.
    Riding on the elevated railroad.
    Shanty boy’s song.
    She was as handsome as a rose.
    Saint Patrick was a gentleman.
    Shamrock shore.
    See-saw.
    Star of Glengary.
    That young man across the way.
    That sweet-scented handsome young man.
    Up at Dudley Grove.
    Up in a back room.
    Up-stairs, in my bed-room.
    Venita.
    Watchman.
    Willie’s on the dark blue sea.
    Wind blew through his whiskers.
    Would I were a boy again.
    Windy man from Brooklyn.
    Written in letters of gold.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




Wehman’s Collection of Songs, No. 8.

Containing 104 Songs.


    A Yankee ship and a Yankee crew.
    An Irishman’s dying request--_Rec._
    Bonaparte on Saint Helena.
    Bring back the old folks, Willie darling.
    Bonny Irish boy, The.
    Bright Alfarata.
    Banbury Cross.
    Baby on the brain.
    Belleville Convent fire, The.
    Banks of Newfoundland, The.
    Charley, he’s a masher.
    Carrie, dear.
    Come back to the old home again.
    Comet of the West, The.
    Conductor with the patent bell punch.
    Clam soup pedler’s daughter, The.
    Dan and Teddie’s parting.
    Dear little Colleen.
    Donevans, The.
    Daschen on the Rhine--_Recitation_.
    Down by the rustic gate.
    Ehren on the Rhine.
    Eggs for your breakfast in the morning.
    Electric light, The.
    Eddie McCarty.
    Fenians’ escape, The.
    Fifth Avenue.
    Falling leaves.
    Flew-y, Flew-y.
    Gallant Sixty-ninth, The.
    George Constantine McKeown.
    Give me back my heart again.
    Green fields of America, The.
    Her lovers--_Recitation_.
    How we tried to whip the teacher--_Rec._
    Hebrew wedding, The.
    I dreamed that old Ireland was free.
    In the shadow of the leaves.
    I’ll go back to the old bridge again.
    If I was the President.
    I will stand by my friend.
    I’ll name the boy Dennis or no name at all.
    Isle of France, The.
    In the Louisiana Lowlands.
    Jordan is a hard road to travel.
    Johnny, fill up the bowl--No. 1.
    Johnny, fill up the bowl--No. 2.
    Johnny Doyle.
    Jeremiah, blow the fire.
    Jack is every inch a sailor.
    Let me dream again.
    Lady, art thou sleeping?
    Let us speak of a man as we find him.
    Lily of the West, The.
    Married life.
    Musical wife, The.
    My rattling mare and I.
    McCarthy’s boarding house.
    Mother’s last letter to me.
    My bonny laboring boy.
    Maryland, my Maryland.
    Mary Blane.
    ’Neath the maple by the mill.
    Napolitaine.
    Nobody’s mule--_Recitation_.
    Other side of Jordan, The.
    Oh! I shall call dada.
    Orphan boy, The--_Recitation_.
    Orphan girl, The.
    Old Mousquetaire, The.
    Once again.
    Oh, Fred! the boat is turning over.
    Our sailors on the sea.
    Poor old Jesse’s blind.
    Poor married man, The.
    Pretty little Mary.
    Paddy’s curiosity shop.
    Paddy on the canal.
    Sally Mackenally.
    Shamrock, rose and thistle, The.
    Song from “Nanon.”
    Something to tickle the girls.
    Sparking Sarah Jane.
    Silver bells of memory.
    Sweet Alpine roses.
    Shoot the hat.
    Sweet dreams of mother and home.
    Swinging on the golden gate.
    There’s a light in the window.
    Tommy, make room for your uncle.
    Ten little injuns.
    Three grains of corn.
    Ten minutes too late.
    Umbrella courtship.
    When we meet by the old bridge again.
    When the circus comes to town.
    What is life?--_Recitation_.
    Wax-work show, The.
    Woman is what man doth make her--_Rec._
    When we went roller skating.
    You’ll miss your mother when she’s gone.
    Yes, we all will be there.
    Yaller gal that winked at me, The.
    Yarn of the “Nancy Bell,” The.

Price 10 Cents.

For sale by all Booksellers and Newsdealers in the United States and
Canada, or will be sent post-paid to any address on receipt of price.
Address

                        H. J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
               P. O. Box 1823. =50 Chatham St., New York.=




JUST THE BOOK YOU NEED.

The Complete Letter Writer FOR LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.


This is the first time that a book has been published that plainly teaches
=how to write a letter=. It shows clearly all the blunders and mistakes
apt to be made by an inexperienced writer, and makes manifest in the
simplest way the proper method of avoiding and rectifying such blunders
and mistakes, whether they occur in the spelling, the punctuation or the
grammar.

This book explains all the details of correspondence, whether relating to
the form, the penmanship, the directing, folding and sending of a note or
a letter. There are in this book valuable hints about =Love, Courtship and
Marriage=, showing in what style lovers should indite epistles.

There are given all the various letters that arise in the course of
business: Asking for money, requesting time, enclosing remittance, asking
assistance, reasons for refusal, from tenants to landlords on different
subjects, with landlords’ replies. Then--=and this is a very important
feature=--there is shown the legal importance of a letter; and
explanations are given upon the exact meaning of expressions used in
writing, that may be brought into court in litigations. It also contains
the =art of abbreviating writing=, so that any one can, with practice,
write with the rapidity of the shorthand writer. In fact, =the following
persons all require this book=:

    YOUNG LADIES AND YOUNG GENTLEMEN.
    WIVES AND HUSBANDS.
    WIDOWS AND BACHELORS.
    FARMERS AND TRADERS.
    THE SICK AND THE WELL.
    SOLDIERS AND SAILORS.
    MOTHERS AND FATHERS.
    DAUGHTERS AND SONS.
    GIVERS AND RECEIVERS OF PRESENTS.
    THE EDUCATED AND THE ILLITERATE.

But it would take page after page to begin to enumerate all the different
classes to whom “=The Complete Letter Writer=” would prove an invaluable
companion. There is nothing worth knowing in any other letter writer not
to be found here, while there are many things of importance here not to be
found in any other book. Notwithstanding all these good points it is only
=Twenty-five Cents a copy=, and is sent at that price, postage paid, to
any part of the United States or Canada. Address

                       HENRY J. WEHMAN, Publisher,
                           50 CHATHAM STREET,
                       P. O. Box 1823. =NEW YORK.=





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Witches' Dream Book; and Fortune
Teller, by A. H. Noe

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WITCHES' DREAM BOOK; FORTUNE TELLER ***

***** This file should be named 53879-0.txt or 53879-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/3/8/7/53879/

Produced by Chris Curnow and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
